CHAPTER I 


THE SETTING OF THE PROBLEM OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 








Research in the social sciences 
and humanities is unlike research in the 
natural sciences in that it uses written 
TES EUs} ales joncaliay@aljoeil wiehocaaulewl, Ubayes seaseshe 
Guty of scholarship is to protect and pre- 
Serve) Original writings, the loss of which 
would be irretrievable. Except in the 
case of records committed to perishable pa- 
per, this service does not call for the re— 
production of the texts. But great impor- 
tance must also be attached to those me- 
chanical impediments which hinder a scholar 
whenever he is compelled to alter his plans 
or suspend his work because he can neither 
go to the material he needs nor have the 
material brought to him. Unless a given 
body of research material is reproduced in 
so many copies and distributed in so many 
DlACeSmUna tebe Ls accessable: bo) all ithe 
scholars who wish to use it, the mechanical 
impediment to the use of that body of ma- 
terial has not been wholly removed. 

In the days when the classics and 
the works of the Fathers constituted the 
principal body of research material, a 
scholar was not unlikely to have the core 
of his research material in his own private 
library. As the scope of the disciplines 
expanded and the stock of printed matter 
accumulated, increasing dependence was 
placed on the college or university libra- 
ries. A generation of great librarians 
solved the problems of cataloguing and ad- 
ministering these libraries. Now, as the 
"tonnage of needed material continues to in- 
crease, the ordinary college library be- 
comes as inadequate as the private library, 
and the prospect appears that nothing less 
than the whole system of research libra- 
ries, codperating with each other and allo- 
cating responsibilities among themselves, 
will be able to supply the research schol- 
ar's needs. The Association of Research 
ep Tecmee SMe Sam Ona MO CmmeINA TOs In lO uO 
grapple with this problem, and the American 





Library Association Committee on Bibliogra- 
phy has long been working upon ites 

In dealing with the problem of re- 
search materials, three interests are to be 
distinguished: those of the scholar as a 
producer, of the scholar as a consumer, and 
of the library as a custodian. The scholar 
as a producer wants to see his manuscript 
Set up in type, printed on good paper, 
bound ne buCckran wands Ch spr pubes imeeaSs 
large an edition as possible. Although 
"book form" is an arbitrary and mechanical 
eriterion of scholarly value, it is given 
weight in-academic circles. The consumer 
interest is that of the man who is uSing a 


library. All the documents of which he 
makes use are for him "materials for re- 
search." He does not care whether they are 


printed or typewritten or in manuscript 
form, whether durable or perishable, wheth-— 
er original or photostat, so long as they 
are legible. Whether the edition is large 
OG Smal wether tie library, buys... begs, 
or borrows the material makes no difference 
to him so long as he can have it in hand 
when he wants it. The custodian's inter- 
est has to do with the demands of future 
generations of scholars. The growth of 
each library must be so directed that its 
present acquisitions dovetail with past and 
future acquisitions. The custodian must 
also undertake to gather items for which 
there is no present demand on the part of 
the "consumer"; he may seek especially to 
care for the unique things which are no- 
where else collected and preserved. cileverite 
these interests may be difficult to recon— 
cile with each other is illustrated both in 
tiew production vand in ther did bird pubaonm son 
material. 

In the production of books the line 
of technical development has been in the 
direction of lower costs for larger edi- 
tions. Rotary presses and wood-pulp paper, 
as well as the sales and promotion policies 











1. See "A Restatement of the A.L.A. Plan for the Promotion of Research Library Service by Codperative 
Methods," made for the A.L.A. at the request of the Secretary, by the Chairman, November 3, 1930. 


Washington, D. C., 19350. 


a METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 








of publishers, emphasize the importance of 
securing a wide market. But scholarship, 
with its tendency to increased specializa- 
tion, has been constantly diminishing the 
number of probable users of any given 
scholarly publication. Publishers! require— 
ments are met with impermanent papers, while 
the custodians! interests call for maximum 
permanence. 

In the distribution of books, that 
Toe LOMSay., ame tie LOrmblaganewon laliprary 
acquisition policies, the consumer and cus- 
todian interests clash. The graduate 
schools are feeding into the university and 
college system a highly trained personnel, 
expected to pursue research work along with 
teaching. To secure the maximum of re- 
search effort from this teaching personnel, 
the libraries should be so equipped that 
any scholar can pick up his work and go on 
with it wherever he may happen to be teach- 
ing. In the attempt to meet the need, li- 
brary funds are turned this way and that, 
regardless of long-term policies, to sup- 
ply the research requirements of the man 
who happens to be on the ground. But this 
interferes with the distribution of field 
among libraries, which is necessary if the 
total resources of scholarship are to be 
used most efficiently in collecting and 
preserving materials. 

An inquiry into the techniques of 
reproducing research materials is called 
for at the present time because there are 
coming to light new processes and devices 
which, taken in their entirety, promise to 
have an impact on the intellectual world 
comparable with that of the invention of 
printing. The typewriter and the photo- 


stat were the precursors of the array of 
new devices, among which the planograph, or 
photo-offset, and the miniature film copy 
have the most interesting possible applica- 
tions. The photo-offset process now con- 
trols the bringing back into print. on sold 
books, pamphlets, and journals. A few more 
inventions along the present line of tech- 
nological development may result in render- 
ing "reprinting" a kind of simple addition 
to the functions of a library, as photo- 
stating has come to be. The use of minia-— 
ture film copies is in its very infancy, 
but progress along its line of development 
would tend to bring the cost of making a 
unique copy of a book lower than the normal 
original purchase price, lower perhaps than 
the cost of mailing and returning an inter- 
library loan--a situation with revolution-— 
ary implications. Book and" journals publish — 
ing, now taken for granted as the sole 
channels for the flow of an intellectual 
product, may be challenged by the conse- 
quences of these technological changes. Per- 
haps the time may come when the internal 
documents of scholarship will circulate 
like the internal documents of a great busi- 
ness enterprise, with the journal and the 
book appearing in their present volume as 
vehicles of communication, but supplemented 
by innumerable memoranda drawn up and mul- 
tiplied by inexpensive office duplicating 
processes. "Such possi pila ties Mich siamo 
realm of dream and prophecy. For the pres-— 
ent there is required only an attentive 
watching of the new processes and an effort 
to compare them, fitting each one into its 
most appropriate place. 


———————————<_<_ = 


