CHAPTER IV 


THE TYPESCRIPT BOOK OR MEMORANDUM: 
TYPESCRIPT 


The typewriter has been well estab-— 
lished as the device by which all scholarly 
work is prepared for publication. Authors 
often use it when drafting their manu- 
scripts. Typed copy is always submitted to 
the publisher by the author and to the lin- 
otyper by the publishers. The fact that 
the typewriting stage intervenes so many 
times in the preparation of reading matter 
for distribution raises a question as to 
whether typescript could be carried not 
only as far as the linotyper, but also as 
far as the reader. In.other words, whatis 
the case for the typescript book? 

In terms of the number of words 
written or the number of words printed and 
read, typescript rivals newsprint as the 
standard conventional writing form of con- 
temporary civilization. Everyone is famil- 
jar with the typescript letter. Business 
men use information sheets and confidential 
letter services that are really periodicals 
in mimeographed form; they are becoming in- 
creasingly accustomed to seeing catalogues 
and statistical studies produced in type- 
script by "near-print" methods. The Gov- 
ernment frequently mimeographs its reports. 
But the use of typescript is not generally 
associated with the publication of the in- 
ternal documentation of scholarship. This 
is true, not on account of any deficiency 
from the standpoint of legibility, but be- 
eause the possibilities of reproducing 
typescript economically and attractively 
have not been fully explored by the schol- 
arly world. 

This is really surprising in view 
of the fact that nearly everyone knows ina 
general way the qualities of the typewrit- 
er and the extent to which it has affected 
office practice. The typewriter itself is 
so cheap and widely distributed, and the 
skill to use it is so easily acquired, that 
its operating costs are low. Bond paper, 
filing cabinets, folders, and loose-leaf 
notebooks have been standardized to sizes 





THE TYPEWRITER AND 


that conform to it. Office appliances, even 
the office offset press, are keyed to its 

8 1/2" x 11" sheet. There is only one 
standard measurement that has never con- 
formed to it--that is library shelving. Li- 
brary shelving is spaced to care for pages 
10" or less in height. Libraries receiv- 
ing typescript books on full-size typewrit- 
er paper are put to the inconvenience of 
shelving them with oversize books. But 
elsewhere the typewriter has brought equip- 
ment and practice into line with its dimen- 
sions. 

By what means may the typescript 
book be produced? It may be a first copy 
from under the typewriter ribbon, as so 
many of our theses are, or it may be a copy 
multiplied by hectograph, mimeograph, or 
photo-offset. The choice of any of these 
reproduction methods for the multiplying of 
typescript material depends upon the de- 
gree of legibility afforded by the tech- 
nique selected and upon the costs involved, 


which may be analyzed, as in the case of 


él 


the printed books, as first costs (composi- 
tion and area costs) and running costs. Of 
the methods mentioned, photo-offset pre- 
sents the most complex problems in cost 
levels and legibility on account of the 
possibility of photographically reducing 
the size of the typescript in making a 
photo-offset copy. 

The four mechanical devices for 
multiplying typescript will be separately 
analyzed in the following chapter, but it 
is necessary in the first instance to 
understand the characteristics of the type- 
writer itself. 


The Standard Typewriter 

The standard typewriters are priced 
at about $110.00. The type is standardized 
in two sizes, known as pica and elite. The 
pica typewriter lays down ten letters to 
the inch, the elite, twelve. How do these 
typescript letters compare with the letters 


32 METHODS OF REPRODUCING 


RESEARCH MATERIALS 





of relief printing? A peculiarity of type- 
script as compared with print-face is the 
equal width of the letters. The typescript 
"it is just as broad as the "ml", This 
equal width is a necessary consequence of 
the mechanical system by which the type- 
writer spaces letters. A number of design- 
ers have proposed or attempted a typescript 
face that will resemble print-face; the 
task of making such a typescript face is 
rendered difficult simply because of the 
equal spacing of the typewriter mechanism. 
A change of the spacing system that would 
give the "i" a narrow space and the "m" a 
broad one would greatly complicate the ma- 
chine and make it more expensive. 


A new spacing mechanism has 
recently appeared inGermany. One model 
is available in America, in the hands of 
Edwards Brothers. This paragraph has 
been typed with it. Note that there are three 
different letter widths - the narrow letters 
such as f and i, the middle-sized letters 
such as d and g, and the two broad letters, 
w and m. The typewriter letter levers are 
linked each with one of two spacing rods; 
the m and w are given additional width by 
the typist, who strikes the space bar when- 
ever she uses these two letters. 

The difference in spacing is eas- 
ily seen when setin a column in groups of 
Six. 

iii iii 


it it 
ddd ggg 
aaa bbb 
mmm mmm 
WWW WWW 


This new spacing device opens 
a new field fo the designers of typescript 
face. 


Special types are available, such 
as micro-elite, laying down fourteen let- 
ters to the inch, or ultra micro-elite, lay- 
ing down sixteen letters to the inch. Their 
interlinear spacing is usually six lines to 
the inch. A sample page done with micro- 


elite type is shown in Figure XXVIII. 


The Equivalence of Type and Typescript 


If the horizontal measurement of 
typescript were taken as the basis in as- 
signing it a position in the point system 
of typography, the following table of 
equivalents would result: 


Pica typescript would be equivalent to 14-pt. type. 


Elite typescript would be equivalent to 12-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 80% of normal size to 10-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 70% of normal size to 9-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 60% of normal size to 8-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 50% of normal size to T7-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 40% of normal size to 6-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 30% of normal size to 5-pt. type. 


If, on the other 
cal measurement of typescript were 
it would be obvious that. 


hand, the verti- 
taken, 


Pica typescript would be equivalent to 10-pt. type. 
Elite typescript would be equivalent to 8-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 80% of normal size to 7-pt. type. 
Pica reduced to 70% of normal size to 6-pt. type. 


The relative importance of the hor- 
izontal and vertical measurements of type 
controlling legibility has not been de- 
termined; it is, therefore, difficult to 
work out an accurate table of equivalents 
between print-face and typescript sizes and 
reductions. Since groups of letters or 
words, instead of single letters, consti- 
tute a sensory unit, it is probable that 
the vertical measurement of type is a more 
important factor in its effect on the read- 
ing rate, and consequently upon legibility, 
than the horizontal measurement. If such 
is the case, it would follow that type- 
script, despite its horizontal spread, is 
but slightly more legible than print-face 
of the same vertical point size. Fig- 
ure XV-shows blocks of 1l-, 9-, 7-, and 6- 
point print-face type and corresponding 
blocks of typescript reduced to approxi- 
mately the same legibility. The reader may 
note how far legibility affects word con- 
tent by comparing the samples. To judge 
how far legibility suffers when typescript 
is so reduced as to lay down the same word 
content as print-face type on an identical 
area, the reader is asked to examine Fig- 
ure XXIX. 


Exhibit to illustrate comparison of print face types of various sizes and styles with typescript 
of varying reductions, having approximately the same legibility. 





11-POINT PRINT-FACE 


This is a specimen of 11-point Modern No. 8, 
which is assumed to be the equivalent of Pica 
typescript. 


This is a specimen of r1-point Bruce Old Style, 
which is assumed to be the equivalent of Pica 
typescript. 


This is a specimen of 12-point Garamont, 
which is assumed to be the equivalent of 
Pica typescript. 


9-POINT PRINT-FACE 


This is a specimen of 9-point Modern No. 8, which is as- 
sumed to be the equivalent of Elite typescript. 


This is a specimen of g-point Bruce Old-Style, a beautiful 
book face. 


This is a specimen of 10-point Garamont, a very eco- 
nomical book face. 


7-POINT PRINT-FACE 


This is a specimen of 7-point Modern No. 8, which is assumed to 
be the equivalent of Pica typescript reduced 30 per cent 


This is a specimen of 7-point Bruce Old Style. This size of type is gen- 
erally used for newsprint. 


This is a specimen of 8-point Garamont. 


6-POINT PRINT-FACE 


This is a specimen of 6-point Modern No. 8, which is assumed to be the 
equivalent of Pica typescript reduced 50 per cent. 


This is a specimen of 6-point Bruce Old Style. Occasionally this type size is used 
for footnotes. 


This is a specimen of 6-point Garamont. 





FULL SIZE PICA TYPE 


This is a specimen of pica type 
photographed full size. 





FULL SIZE ELITE TYPE 


This is a specimen of elite type 
photographed full size. 





PICA TYPE REDUCED 


This is a specimen of pica type 

reduced 30%. 
This is a specimen of micro-elite type photo- 
graphed full size, which is assumed to be the 
equivalent of pica reduced 28% to 30%. 





PICA TYPE REDUCED 


This is a specimen of pica type reduced 50 per cent. 


FIGURE XV 


S 


tobe 


te 
a 
Pts 
ieee; , 


¥ ' oe ie 7 
Gh: as ai 
ae 


e j _ % : 


e 7 


' Qn 7 





e AnD Ee M0 Sek 


ee 


Pele VO be T DONA RY 
Soluuee puemavay few rs OF. FH OT OL DT HOuG RAP HY St 


DONG cee Nal eleO N cy 





Simple Paper Permits Alignment of Typewriting 


Scholars have been slow to accept photoli- 
thograpny as a solution of the problem of 
scholarly publishing because of the unconven- 
tional format whicn is produced by typescript 
Because of the equal spacing produced by the 
conventional typewriter, a compromise had to 
be made in the design of the letters so that 
wide and narrow letters would occupy the same 
space. The result was that a letter such as 
'm' had to be condensed, and a narrow letter 
such as 'i't had to be extended. 


The fallacy of attempting to put regular 
printing types on the ordinary equal space 
typewriter is illustrated in the following 
paragraphs. The copy in the first paragraph 
was set up by a printer in the usual manner, 
without any attempt at justification. It was 
then reset, as it would appear if the type 
used were attached to the conventional type- 
writer. The lower case 'w' was used as the 
standard of horizontal spacing. 


Authorities agree that William Caslon was in- 

fluenced greatly in the design of his famous face 

by Dutch types which were used widely in Eng- 

land when he started his work. As D. B. Updike 

points out, while Caslon "modelled his letters on 
WWWWWwwwwwwwwwwww ww 

Authorities agree that William Caslon was in- 


fluenced greatly in the design of his famous face 


by Dutch types which were used widely in Eng- 
land when he started his work. As) DY Be. Updike 


points out, while Caslon "modelled his letters on 


The typewriter, moreover, does not produce 
justified lines, leaving an uneven right-hand 
margin so unusual in book printing that con- 
ventional taste will prevent the ready accept 
ance of typescript books. Fortunately it is 
now possible by the use of Vogeltype Aligning 
Paper to overcome one of the greatest objec- 
tions to the use of typescript in scholarly 
work. The invention also permits the produc- 
tion of many sizes and styles of type without 
any change in the typewriter keyboard, as 
illustrated in the headlines on this page. 


By producing a justified right-hand margin, 
typescript approaches printface in appearance. 
Doubtless through the development of a type- 
writer having automatic variable spacing, 


such as was built into the first typewriters 
invented, and type similar to ordinary print- 
face, it will be possible for a scholar at 
his desk to produce a page format which can 
not be distinguished from real typeset matter. 
Thus modern technology, curiously, will bring 
man back to the conditions of the Middle Ages, 
when the scholar often was his own scribe. 





A new stretchable paper permits typewritten 
copy to be aligned evenly on right-hand edges, 
allows lithographic production of books, briefs, 


etc., closely resembling printing, but cheaper 


Scholars, moreover,. Will be able to illus- 
trate their texts with photographs, graphs 
and tabular matter simply by making a pasteup 
combining illustrations and text. The photo- 
lithographic process allows great flexibility 
in preparing copy. Thus the above photogram 
of Vogeltype Aligning Paper was reproduced mm 
a plave for the offset press by simply past= 
ing a clipping from a magazine into its posi- 
tion in the text. 


The greatly reduced reproductions on the 
reverse side of this page illustrate some of 
the many applications of Vogeltype Aligning 
Paper. Books, bulletins, house organs, pro- 
ceedings of meetings, circulars, theses and 
lectures are now produced without the expense 
of type composition and engravings. 


fee = 


pacasees 
Z or 
oon) 





This (iret American reprint of the Royal Priser differs sore 
widely from the Newberry publications than any of the other 
eighteenth century American editiona which have been examined 
by Perceval Merritt. in which in general follow the Newberry 
Primer very closely. Most of the cuts representing bird 
Animals and sacred scenes are found as in the Newberry Primer. 
But Pages 76 to 80 have # series of cuts of salling vessels 
which have been found in no other Primer, a ship, Brigantin 
eco, schooner, and sloop. Running at the bottom of these five 
pages 3 @ poem by Addison entitled: An Ode to Almighty God, 
on a Deliverance at Sea." 


Rorat Parmer 


of Reapina. 
FATE PERLE NTA 
i Ts 
VWs, kay nee 


eeeseeescers 


700099000) 000800: 


The Royal Primer Ieproved: Being An Easy And Pl. ant Ouide To 
The Art Of Reading. With Twenty-Eight Cuts Adapted To Children. 
ist The Second Edition. Philadelphia: Printed by James Chattin 
1753. 
'Te/ Royal Primer/ Leproved:/ Being an easy and pleasant/Ouide/ 
To The/ Art of Reading./ Philadelphia: / Printed and Sold By Hildeburn, Volume I, page 281; Sabin 73805; Evans 7114, ci? 
James/ Chattin, in Ctmrch-Alley,/ 1753. the above. No copy has been located, no collation given and 
would seem a4 If the first bibltographer dertved the entry 
96 pages; 48 \leaven. (A) B- F in eights. nome advertisement and that others follow in recording 
Copies: Rosenbach may be other issues of this Priger. The Pennsylvania 
Richmond Literature Co., May 28, 1913, $1225.00. Same copy: carries no advertiseg@ent in 1754 of the Chattin Roye 
Anderson Sale, February 9, 1920, $410.00. However, tn the Pennsylvania Gazette of Februsry 2 
1 am somewhat acquainted with the early nistory of this partic- and April 11, 1754 appears @ list of books printec 
ular Prieer. Late in 1912 a Fourth Avenue dealer tought froa a James Chattin, including: The royal pricer imp' 
junk gan @ pushcart full of pamphle' Dooks and autograph let- bound, 6d. Ditto, bound different, 8d 
ters for approximately ten dollers. A few days later I bought 
gost of the books and pamphlets for about seven hundred dol- 156 
lars, The autographe vere eold to another party I did, how- 
ever, find out that about ten minutes after the dealer had 'The/ Royal Primer:/ Or, an easy and ple 
bought the whole lot, a certain well known scout bought the Art of Reading / Being an Introductory 
above Primer for fifteen dollars. He sold part interest to J the Sciences./ Publisn'd by Authority./ ~ 
. < A. Bowden who at this tise managed the Richmond Literature Newbery, at/ the Bible and Sun, tn St. Paul 
THE R Por ime a - . 6 "a 3 Company. The latter put {it up at auction with the above stated B. Cellins/ at Salisbury. (Price bound 34.) (17>. 
OTO coy, irher 1 D PO Sotae at eee ase result. George D. Suith was announced as buyer. If this is so Cop. 
MPANy . f fe or 1f the original scout kept his interest, I do not know Presentation inscription un flyleat dated 1755. 
However, when it was resold, Mr. Huntington lost out Anderson Sale, January 17, 1916, $8.00, 


VOQSLIVPER = © & Ri a mn 


,opcE_| MACHINE PARTS LISTS 


MEtaY | PUBLISHED AT GREAT 


fre PRODUCTION | TYPESETTINGsRE} 
TYPE | NOTES ELIMINATED IN 8 
ucmosyinznwt| MACHINE OFFSET 


PROCEEDINGS C 


noe ve x £0 oe Wewriver ott 
me oe ce : teRens 
Sige ison ene! tne PMs it wa MEY " manne, eo 

Liner tet 4 i - poet ¥ Italie 


RARE BOOK 

COLLECTORS 8. " on i" - un Be 

CHECKLIST ose (oc oi eg gars, "i cert eon 

PUBLISHED wes eat ove ; 3 ee to, 25 Bling Pa 2 ant et 
sehen ve 


densed ty 
* ete 


TYPING SERVICE 
BEGINSinCAPITAL 


op; we ee : A Be ec San pti ty 
SIRCLE SET * r : 9. BIA greet, ca S HEADLINE ~ i 
PUCWRITER "OFF RESONANCE" HOWLS: 


Paomors 5 - : De - APPLICATIONS 


Hedin BLP ening pee 
broadsice am 
ise 





™en 
Vsilable fg 
Y sporectate 
Tm 


the vars 
Usted 


ee 





es surong pres 
Neocles aa 
io TREDS p cet ictency of Bulldinitteed 1m 
Beeateieiee pese Se gnosle 
so of Con ir present © 
Laing FO ore ee 


al bat 
oercis) nx The peat 


ee 999 
Se reial boildts 2 
cers tor pen om i 
coat ieiacee at © mt oat me 
eer oe ire months this yeu  Feeetated 
vemrniih wosormisation BFOJEENS Th cenit St 
sai =. 307,500 comp: Se: 
ea Sa ag ixak dive Sone 
ey ni7, 
ee 


aust the recent S12 
patwre 

esyeraxy iD 

ie forecne ter 


y evidence 
ry building 38% 


a factory Do ae -FeD 


nown 


cm of tbe pose 
fine of tD'® 
structaress 
pave ei} 


- 37 EASTSRt 
COMMURCTAL BUILDING comrracts 

















7 
a 


ie ro - hae i) J 

Te a via en Viet aitent i 
Sap etar 2 pr eye 8s at 
- 4 


a @ 


| are 7 A 7 ad 148, d= me <A 
. 5 
. te 8 ae y) : 
ky has: : Ore) a9 
mente AYty Wer a). by, 
RRMA Ye AML 
aor 3 48 


ah of 4 


' 
v1 


Sie "a7 \'< g 
Brin gtth @a) bi 


ee eh, oS 

Ps t 7 wt) i. ey 
vue err: 44 - 
shane ide . oe 
we : 


wade nis 


Pin 
"e > \4 ; iv q i 
mi he is 
iv seer a 2} vr ayn 
i) aa my 


Y 


teh hme 
ie 
: anaes 


na ; 





FIGURE XVII 
@ MASTER GOPY FOR PHOTO OFFSET PRINTING e@ 


Business men throughout the country, particularly 
those known as printers, are well aware of the fact 
that a new printing process is here, and that very 
large savings are possible from its use. This new 
method is known as Offset Lithography. It isasim- 
ple process, fast and inexpensive. Illustrations 
can be used at no extra cost for plates. Business 
offices are finding it desirable to install offset 
presses, and many hundreds of these machines are turn— 
ing out work that.is satisfactory in every way. Speed 
and economy are the factors that create interest. 
Where the cost of the offset press is too much for 
Phessnallerspusianess oLiices 1 as the practicestor 
such offices to make their own master copy and send 
same to a commercial offset house to be printed. 


The great problem in Photo Offset work is met in the 
making of the master copy. The copy may be printed 
from type set up by a printer, composed on a lino- 
type, written by a typewriter, or by the Vari-typer 
Composing Machine, built especially for this work. 
Type-set or linotype copy is too expensive, for af- 
Lemenicematten 1S esetelp,e tMempreateste part Onestne 
printing cost has then been incurred. Typewriting 
is very unsatisfactory, because only one style of 
type can be used on any one machine. Typewritten 
matter is cold and anemic to the artistic eye, and 
creates the very effect most business men are trying 
to escape. The only real composing machine which 
will write copy at a low cost, and at the same time 
absolutely delight the person interested, is the 
Vari-typer, manufactured in New York City by the 
Ralph C. Coxhead Corporation. It must be stated here, 
however, that as with most machines, the degree of 
satisfaction will vary withthe intelligence and ar- 
tistry of the operator. 


The Vari-typer is constructed to use different type 
plates, of whichmore than sixty in English are avail-— 
able, and more than two-hundred in foreign languages. 
Type may be changed instantly. Variable character 
spacing isa feature of each machine, whichmeans that 
letters may be written at as many characters to the 
inch as the different sizes of type make necessary, 
limited, of course, to 3 different spacings on any 
one machine. These three may be any combination of 
the spacings 10, 12, 14 or 16 letters to the inch. 
This machine also permits the use of six different 
vertical or line spacings. The keyboard is easy to 
operate especially if the operator has had typewriter 
experience as the touch system is used for both and 
the keyboards are almost exactly alike. 


Provision is made for LARGE BOLD HEADINGS and this 
effect is very cleverly produced. Justification of 
the right hand margin requires first writing of the 
copy so as to determine what adjustment is necessary 
and to so indicate at the end of each line. This 
adjustment is provided for by absorption or exten- 
sion in the second writing by use of adevice called 
the half-—back spacer. This method prevents the riv- 
ers of white space so common to justification when 
attempted by typewriters and which is so objection-— 
able to good printers. 


Vari-typer is manufactured in many models to meet 
different requirements. The special machine which 
the Coxhead Corporation builds for the Photo Offset 
Field, is equipped with special mechanism to handle 
carbon paper ribbon in addition to cotton and silk 
ribbons. Thecarbon paper ribbons produce remarkably 
clean cut work and a specially constructed ribbon, 
300 feet in length, is used which is different than 
any other ribbon on the market. This ribbon does 
not travel when the space bar is used, thus produc-— 
ing a considerable economy. 


Recently this Company produced a new type plate with 
all metal construction which is a great improvement 
over anything so far offered Lo wthe trademey iis 
called Krometal and produces copy that should please 
those who like artistic results. Most of the plates 
used on the Vari-typer Composing Machines are being 
built under the new frometal process. 


Writers of manuscript find many features that Vari- 
typer provides, of unusual value. The advantages 
that follow the ability to use italics in marking 
passages for emphasis isanexample. As the machine 
is always loaded with two type plates, the operator 
may change instantly from one to the otherbya sim- 
ple movement of the wrist. The variation of type is 
of tremendous interest to all writers. 


Statisticians, librarians, accountants are very en- 
thusiastic over the condensation possibilities of 
the Vari-typer through the use of proper typography. 
Large statements may be reduced as muchas50% with- 
out detracting fromthe readability. One large con- 
cern in Cleveland, Ohio, weare told, uses nine Vari- 
typers on the writing of statements in condensed 
form. The results are very pleasing to executives. 


Footnotes are outstanding intheir effect when writ- 
ten with the type appropriate for this purpose. 


The Coxhead Company is continually working on new 
styles of type and are always interested in discus-— 
Sing this subject withthe business and professional 
man. 


Considering the work that this composing machine 
does, the cost isvery reasonable. It is well known 
that composition forms the greater part of printing 
prices and it does seem that the Vari-typer can soon 
save its cost to any business man interested in the 
subject. The fact that this machine is sold in al- 
most every country of the world, is indication that 
it solves one problem of the office executive, that 
of doing necessary work at a saving in cost and with 
thesdesined wet teciter 


Much thought should be given to the matter of com- 
position for photo offset presses, as the saving to 
be made from the use of this process will soon dis-— 
appear, if either the results are unsatisfactory, or 
the method used for composition proves too costly. 
It should not be forgotten that some reduction of 
copy through the camera will enhance the result. 


THE TYPESCRIPT BOOK OR MEMORANDUM 55 


The Uneven Right-Hand Margin 
Closely related to the fact that 


typescript letters are of equal width is 
the inability of the machine to make an 
even right-hand margin. The linotype or 
monotype readjusts the spacing of the let- 
ters in a line in such a way as to make all 
of the lines on a page equal in length or, 
as it is said, to "justify" them. The type- 
writer cannot do this, except by one or two 
expensive means, which require either a 
special typewriter and an extra typing, or 
a special kind of paper. 

By using the Varityper, and by re- 
sorting to two typings, an even right-hand 
margin can be made. On the first copy the 
typist makes the right-hand margin come as 
near the line as possible, usually missing 
it by not more than two or three letters 
long or short. Then the copy is blue- 
penciled to indicate places where the 
space can be extended or contracted. Ina 
second typing, each line will be written 
exactly as it isin the first copy, except 
that the extra letters will be absorbed in 
the line by crowding the spacing between 
the words or letters, or a short line will 
be stretched out by increasing the spaces 
between the words or letters. Opinions 
differ as to whether the resulting copy 
looks choppy or uneven. A sample of Vari- 
type work is shown in Figure XVII. As has 
been said, this process requires the use of 
the Varityper machine, which has a variable 
horizontal spacing, and of course the ex- 
tra typing process adds to the composition 
cost for labor and proofreading. This meth- 
od of justifying the right-hand margin 
could be used for hectographing and mimeo- 
graphing as well as for photo-offset work. 

There is another method which can 
be used for justifying the right-hand mar- 
gin. The Vogeltype Aligning Paper Corpora- 
tion, Federal Trust Building, Newark, New 
Jersey, has devised a special kind of 
stretchable paper cemented to a backing 
sheet. The copy is typed on this paper in 
the conventional manner without regard to 
alignment. After the sheet is taken from 
the typewriter, short lines are stretched 
to the correct length, as illustrated in 
Figure XVI. At present the paper is 
priced at $.24 a sheet in quantities of 
twenty-five sheets, with reductions in price 
for larger quantities. The sheets are made 
to contain from forty-eight to eighty lines 








of type each, and each line has a maximum 
length of 9", Separate sheets are made for 
vertical line spacing of three, four, four 
and one-half, five, and six lines to the 
inch. For great primer type (eighteen 
point), four lines to the inch give the 
most readable results; pica and elite type 
give the best results with five and six- 
space paper respectively. From a typo- 
graphic standpoint, copy set with these 
spaces between the lines is more readable 
than when lines are set closer to each 
other. The typing area of the sheets 
aM eo OC mir OMe o Wax OL Om ot mexXom Oi 

A third device for justifying type- 
script is a mechanism in the process of de- 
velopment by Professor Charles C. Peters of 
the Pennsylvania State College. An attach- 
ment to an ordinary typewriter automatical- 
ly controls, the length of thesline. This 
attachment consists essentially of a screw 
which progressively displaces the carriage 
in relation to the writing point. The just- 
ifying requires a preliminary or fair copy 
typing to indicate the number of spaces by 
which the line must be lengthened or short- 
ened. In the format typing, the proper one 
of seven controls is engaged at the begin- 
ning of each line, and the excess of defi- 
ciency in length is apportioned equally 
among the fifty-four or so spaces. The ap- 
paratus at present writing permits lengthen- 
ing or shortening by a maximum of three 
spaces. Pending the patenting of the de- 
vice and its assignment to a commercial 
company, Dr. Peters will furnish a simple 
form of this device for use with any make 
of typewriter for $12.00, or a more auto- 
matic form for $25.00. Changes necessary 
in the typewriter itself restrict the line 
which may subsequently be written with it 
to about seven inches in the case of the 
10"-typewriter. An alternative is to pur- 
chase through Dr. Peters a typewriter with 
the adjustment already made, for $60.00 or 
$75.00, depending upon the type of attach- 
ment furnished. The reader is referred to 
Statistical Procedures and Their Mathemati- 
cal Bases, by Dr. Peters and Walter P. Van- 
Voohis (1935) as an example of a_ photo- 
offset book for which the master copy was 
prepared by Dr. Peters! device. 


The Varityper and the Electromatic Type- 
writer 





There are two special typewriters 


54 





which are at once more expensive and more 
useful for certain typing processes. The 
Varityper, mentioned above, was developed 
from the Hammond machine; it permits the 
typist to choose among a number of type 
faces, type sizes, and corresponding verti- 
cal and horizontal spacings. These alter- 
natives are here tabulated and some of the 
faces available are shown in Figure XVIII. 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERTALS 


Typing Stages in Book Production: 


Fair, and Format Copies 
Typing costs exhibit an interest- 


ing flexibility: 





Draft, 


they vary with the number 


of times a given text is retyped in the 
course of its preparation. 


In the normal 


production of a book the text is likely to 
be several times copied and corrected. Are 
the costs of all these typing operations to 


TABLE X 


TYPES OF VARITYPER MACHINES 


A. Motor Varitypers: 


MOR e  araaal ata tetat ny eta eta best ehetel tel 10 and 
AUT Face aera age a abaya ates Viste <tc ae  LOP and. 
DTG ais shore aa ate sasaioie sale.eler ene 10 and 
Se rerun, are Seco cao ooo 


B. Non-motor Varitypers: 


Te rem tere ehmun a ms alas, ale ie ete ates Shans auececs 
POW attetat aber s eos eel stata ete otaiets tere ale 
Mire ce' sf ae ste'stu' eletela Sieiv.e'e e¥or ec cceee 
MS Use almie ape sie ale sie sles sis cle els che sls 


HKighteen characters to the inch may 
be had on the "7", "L", and "W" in place of 
the sixteen characters to the inch, and on 
the "Q" in place of the fourteen, at an ad- 
ditional charge of $25.00 per machine. The 
fourteen-to-the-inch spacing and the six- 
teen-to-the-inch spacing are the same as 
those called "micro-elite" and "ultra- 
micro-elite" on the standard typewriters. 

All type plates are priced at $5.00. 
each. The Varityper is sold for $210.00 to 
$360.00 for the power-run models, ranging 
from a 9"- to a 24"-carriage, and for 
$140.00 to $160.00 for the non-motor mod- 
els, which can be obtained with a 9"-car- 
riage only. 

The Electromatic typewriter has the 
standard typescript faces and spacings, but 
makes the impression with electric power 
rather than finger power. It is especial-- 
ly useful in increasing the number of legi- 
ble carbon copies, where pressure in the 
typewriter strokes is all-important. The 
Standard Electromatic typewriter is sold 
for $225.00 for the 12"-carriage and 
$250.00 for the 16"-carriage. 


ee 
az 
14 
14 


and 14 
and 16 
and 16 
and 16 


characters 
characters 
characters 
characters 


to 
to 
to 
to 


the 
the 
the 
the 


dime are 
sale Kine 
eee 
inch. 


LO 
10 
Le 
LO 


to the 
piace 
inch. 
to the 


and 14 characters nels 
characters to the 
characters to the 


and 12 characters eh. 


be lumped as composition costs? 

The accurate study of the typewrit- 
ing costs to be assessed against the multi- 
plication of the book requires that they 
be separated from those incidental to the 
writing of the book. For purposes of clar- 
ity, therefore, three stages in the type- 
script preparation of a book may be dis- 
tinguished from each other. 

The first stage is the making of 
the draft copy. This is the author's prod- 
uct. It may be in longhand or in type- 
script, oF in a ycombinationsontpoth samo uere 
the pile of pages, often much interlined 
and scratched, which the writer turns over 
to a typist, if he can afford one. 

The second stage in the prepara- 
tion of the book is here called the making 
of the fair copy. The fair copy is#ine 
manuscript as it has been prepared for sub- 
mission to an editor if the book is to be 
printed; it is the pile of typescript that 
comes back from the typist. Sometimes the 
author prepares his own fair copy; some- 
times the so-called fair copy is not very 
fair. But as a normal stage in the normal 


FIGURE XVIII 


This is a sample mimeographed page to illustrate some of the type faces, type sizes, and 
corresponding vertical and horizontal spacings possible with the Varityper machine. This 
paragraph is written with Miniature Roman type, in nine point size, with six lines to the 
inch. This type lays down fourteen letters to the inch and is similar to the micro-elite 
type of the standard typewriter. When typing a text in which there are characters not in 
the Roman alphabet, the non—Roman characters may be available in a Varityper type plate, 


which costs $500 ($8.50 in metal). 


° 6 

This is a paragraph written with Petite of the copy can be employed by the use 

type in eight point size, nine Lines to of the hammer repeat key. Italic type 

the inch his type lays down sixteen May also be used for emphasis. This is 

letters to the inch and corresponds to an advantage over ordinary typing, where 

the ultra-micro-elite type of the stand- anderlining is the only method available 

ard typewriter. For emphasis, bold to indicate emphasis. 

characters of the same style as the rest 

e ° @ 
To justify the right-hand margin, a To justify the right-hand margin, a 
page is. typed in the ordinary way on page is typed in the ordinary way on 
sheet of paper; then the copy is. a sheet of paper ; then the copy is 
blue-pencilled to indicate places. blue-pencilled to indicate places 
where the spaces. can be. extended or where the spaces can be extended or 
contracted. In the second typing, contracted. In the second typing, 
the extra letters. are absorbed by the extra letters are absorbed by 
crowding the spacing between the crowding the spacing | between the 
words. or letters, us.iné the half- words or letters, using the half- 
back spacer, and the short. lines. are back spacer, and the short lines are 
stretched out by increasing the stretched out by increasing the 
spaces. between the words. or letters. spaces between the words or letters. 
© ° e 


This paragraph demonstrates the Varityper's ability to condense statistics into a smaller area than is 
possible with the standard typewriter using ordinary pica or elite type: 


Comparison of a Quoted Printer's Estimate and a Quoted 
Varityper Estimate for 50 copies of a Forty-six Page 


Pamphlet. 
Printing Varityping 
117,50 typesettin Varityping, justifying the 
E 15.00 rake up . lines, and running off on 
22.0Q printing the Mimeograph . . . . 
2.00 stock 
4.00 binding and collating 
$160.50 $60.00 
° © © 


oF Grd. of Satish and foreign tyhe, » to I bolt con be used on one Vardtyher. 
THIS IS OVERSIZE PICA GOTHIC This is MEDIUM PRINT 


This is SMALL PRINT TYPE This is ELITE GOTHIC 


This is DIAGRITIGAL THIS 18 PETITE GOTHIC 











i ner | 
~ LP 
ye »4 a 2% can es | 


LE WR. PRRR "ita TALS near ee ; 


ak: proctee Loner = as 
fue .eonie aque .ncoet ogyt ald te sma atotsuiLt ot a signee 8 et 

etd? .ombsong vaiggthoot oft dslw ofdlancg epatoags Ledupatagd pays gleaned tot 
oft at tend wre Atde enbe Setog gather ab ceoyt anmod ovwtatant débu aoddiqn 
etile-oroln edd of wshinia et Sas domi ed¢ of wtetied seed me? aud. arel eqye atdt. aoe 


ni tow avedetusds one otedt dokdw of dod « gadgyl aed ,ascthawegy? byaboets edt) Bo | 






oun sitet tetetiant 4 ot oldalteve ad om, suetowtesin semoteaen edd ,ededyls. namo ad? © 


athe 


eeu eds yd beqotume ov nao ¢aoo ads 

eayg atleaJi .yek iaaget Te oat 

sl aid? .abesdgme "1 Sew of els = 

erst epitta % whenifio vevo 

aidalievs bodzen uno ot et Si tenee 
. slesiqne ssashini of 


2 
&  Miguss bosd-sigix end ytideus, of 
fO Ye" Yianibic oft ai beqy? ei saeg 
at ygoo eit sodt stegsg Yo toode gs 
essielg odgoibmt of belffonsq-enid 
"0 bebneixe od nao ecosge eds eteriw 
«Raig¢g? baooee off al 
yo hedioade om estottel size off 
ed} neewied aniosga oft sathwoto 
~"Iled edd folex ,ervetiel to ebtow 
duo bottodeste 


oft aniesewout yd 


| gatettel to abtow oid neewted eeoaqe — SOs 
. ® bud Poe 4 ose D etdentas "hey 


T i 


3} apedd ast Tol snme © oat eo tted tage 
out oc 


sani werqiwi e@ ms 
getqyuriaed 


mo tie gala But «Rnsg eat tev 
guicavy O89 ~eenls 
. » igemoouth ot? 


00, oat 


' 


debi on 0 Sas of me Sak MH ai tt Nhpnt acon 


eo TMISS MUIGIM et atdT 
o-* DNTOD 3TIL3 2i olat 
¥ OONTOD BTITS4 o) apuT 


-betogtdaco - 
ets eenii ttode edd bae ,teonge deed 
aegis, unite eae : 


hetouP a ons atenkIes arate 
2 the 40% nee eek 
































. wttonen at a won tne a8 | 
;  teaaw \ofror OOS ARe, es 


ad 
ys 


_ & (ek ree 


i 
i' wv i 
J ¢ 


'wteeteaee Govthe- tee, > 


"aaters Ge the ange. 


at wn "waa Shak aay 4 seu, of A a 
no oie yrtat bo eit ai beqyd al oan 
2k yoo ait wont ,eqng 'p testa mrs 


ssonlg Qiaoibas of ballionsy-sihd 
~ habietse od soo .enange silt stew | 
aitiqyd bneose sit al Jbstonvtinoo a0 
4d hodwedn ew eights) ovine oid iy 
wits tuouted anioms aft anikuow 
=o oft onies .eteties a 7 
ow Bens) dwie of? ban ote 
etit aitenstond é 
ere Sal » BRNO § 


ve yy re: 


boca. Poe put poses am 


'a AAS f. Le. the caXing of 


~s whe authors sa 
Ogee (O Tyht = 
' ' 


AES & Tas 


hy tag. 92 






vr Th @ 


"aged, &. 
pa 


: 
és 
Ne 


Si 


' 
alg 


a sane tos base ROH oe. 


Dar waded sae 

+ tm Whol Abe Mea che: 

e 8 fuce ape. the Pee peta Coa 
ovclyk a Lb-nee Been pvennn foray 


aa L : 
ee See 


J 
ae | 


a 


—ONHTOD AQIa Bsi2 


the law fe oetad, 
ae Pot oe & RF 


aa Pete 
es 


na 93 . 
oo A 


fi r TLS 
1% i 
ian 






: ir 
KA i ie de 
ua 


THE TYPESCRIPT 


BOOK OR MEMORANDUM 55 





movement of a book, this fair copy typing 
can be set apart from the making of the 
draft copy. It is a more mechanical pro- 
cedure; a typist can make the fair copy, 
only the author can make the draft copy. 

If the book is to be multiplied in 
typescript, a third stage will intervene, 
and a third typing may be necessary. The 
text must be transferred to the printing 
surface medium required by the chosen re- 
production process. Also the usual one- 
column, double-spaced format used for the 
fair-copying operation nay not be the 
most desirable format for the finished 
typescript book; the margins of the fair 
copy may be too narrow for maximum legibil- 
ity in hectographing; the one-column for- 
mat of the fair copy may be less desirable 
than a two-column one if mimeographing is 

decided upon; the typed letters of the 
fair copy may not be dark enough or clean- 
cut enough to photograph well for photo- 
offset reproduction. The final typing re— 
quired to put the text in the desired 
format on the hectograph master sheet, the 
mimeograph stencil, or the master copy pa- 
per for photo-offset is called the format 
typing. 

To summarize: the draft copy is a 
step in the writing of a books; the cost of 
making it is not a composition cost in the 
case of either the printed book or the 
typescript book. The cost of the format 
typing, which is always a stage in the mul- 
tiplication of the typescript book, is al- 
ways a true composition cost. The fair 
Copy may be copy for the linotyper or 
photo-offset typist, in which case its 
Cosu is not a true 'composition cost, as its 
making is a stage in the writing process. 
If it is merged with the format typing in 
any of the typescript bookmaking processes, 
PCA SLepDeLMe tie multiplication of the 
DOOk, and its Cost LS a true composition 
COSt. 


the 


The Fair Copy as a Stage in the Writing 
RRoOcess 
ihewauthoreon a book is wsually ex— 





pected to bring his work through the fair 
copy stage at his own expense. The cost 

of preparing the fair copy depends in part 
upon the condition of the draft copy. There 
may be a variation of 20% to 33 1/3% in the 
typing charges due to the condition of the 
draft. The cost depends also upon the num- 
ber of unusual symbols and figures that oc- 
cur, as it takes longer to type technical 
and tabular material than straight non- 
technical text. But fundamentally the cost 
Of preparing eas falLre copy iromea drains 
determined by the length of the manuscript. 

The unit of measurement for type- 
writer work ought to be the keystroke, but 
it is usually the page of 250 to 300 words, 
double-spaced. The keystroke corresponds 
roughly to the em of linotype composition. 
Whereas the number of ems per word is usu- 
ally only four or five, the number of key- 
strokes varies from six to seven. 

It is estimated that in copying 
typescript, a standard speed ought to be 
iO. OOO LOM b/OOmKeystrokesm per mOuIy, 
equivalent to 915 to 1950 words.t This 
should cover from three to seven pages. By 
gathering estimates of standard speeds and 
figures for wage levels, consulting adver- 
tisements in writers! manuals, and collect- 
ing specific commercial estimates from typ- 
ing bureaus, a rough estimate has been 
made of the cost of typescript copying, per 
thousand words: 


Estimate of Costs of Typescript Copying, 


per 1000 Words, in Units of More Than a 
1000 Words: 


Estimate of costs based on normal speeds 
and wage levels ($15 to $25 per week) 
Peet to p46 


With minimum wage and maximum efficiency, 
$.20; with maximum wage and minimum effi- 
ciency, $.72. If typing is done by a 

stenographer receiving a maximum wage of 
$25.00 per week, the cost would be (a) at 
maximum efficiency, $.33; (b) at minimum 
efficiency, $.72; if typing is done by a 





1. A typist can type about 75% as fast as this on the Varityper. 


55 j METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





secretary receiving a maximum wage of 
$35.00 a week, the cost would be (a) at 
maximum efficiency, $.46; (b) at minimum 
efficiency, $102.2 


Estimates based on quotations 
from typing bureaus in Cleve- 
land $.20 

$.50 


minimum 
1/2 average 


} 


Estimates based on quotations 
in- writers! manuals J... $.25 to $050 
$.40 average 


A consideration of these costs 
gives rise to the question of whether or 
not it would be profitable to turn over a 
drart Copy ian fairly cood condition to a 
publisher without having a fair copy made. 
It must be taken for granted that printing 
requires a carefully prepared fair copy. 
If an imperfect Copy is set before the lin- 
otyper, the author's correction charges 
mount rapidly. As a matter of fact, the 
author often sends to the editor a sup- 
posediliyetain copy whach still concvains n= 
numerable crudities and easily corrected 
errors. Une editors of pubilichinge Vaoucses 
have learned to expect this. They main- 
tain in their offices readers who can go 
over the author's supposedly fair copy and 
make it ready for the linotyper. This 
service is necessarily assessed into the 
cost Of primted books as an editorial cost. 
It will be seen that the typescript book 
may be produced without incurring this 





Fortune gives these interesting figures: 


1351 wages 
Secretaries .... $30 to #60 a week 
Stenographers .. $20 to $40 a week 
LVAD Gere! s-ehel oie oe $18 to $30 a week 


«. Fortune says that office workers' wages have fallen off 20% since 1930. 


cost--and also without the perfection that 
results from this editorial work. te taka 
author is subsidizing the publication of 
his book, he pays for the production of a 
perfect fair copy whether his payments go 
tO a typists Or Gor his spubieshicr Ore boar mean 
the book is published commercially, the 
charge for some stages in the making of a 
fair copy may be avoided by the author. 


The Fair Copy as a Stage in the Multiplica- 
tion of a Book: "the Merging of the Fair 


and Format Copies 


ihe making oh bier hati copy mice 
stage in the multiplication of a book only 
when it is merged with the making of the 
format copy for a typescript book--that is, 
when a format copy is made directly from a 
draft copy. Whether or not it is) proiaica— 
ble to prepare the format copy directly 
from the draft depends on the condition of 
the draft copy, the format chosen, and the 
reproduction technique utilized. 

It costs roughly 20% to 66% more to 
type a format copy in two columns single- 
spaced from a draft than it costs to type 
a fair copy in one column double-spaced 
from a drat copy. | lt Maye coctedseiuchma. 
200% more to prepare a complicated format 
COpy Lom a Arabi Copy tials ucosus mine 
prepare a fair copy in ordinary one-column 
format. 

The argument in favor of merging 
the different typing operations is the 
greater the cheaper the reproduction proc-— 
ess. Thus the typist who makes a carbon 





The August, 1935, issue of 


1955 wages 
$25 to $35 a week 


$15 to $25 a week 
$16 to $18 a week 


These wages, transcribed into hourly wages on the basis of 38 hours a week, are: 


cee eee eeeos 


fany give discounts of as much as 20% on manuscripts of "book length" or over 10,000 words. 








a 





FIGURE XIX 


The effect of a variation in apparatus and typists! skill 
in the preparation of the format copy for photo-offset work 


is illustrated in this sample page. 


The page has been printed 


on the same press as the other pages of the book; it would not 
be different from other pages except for the differences in 

the original typings. These differences are exhibited by di- 
viding the page into sections, each section showing the effect 
of the varying conditions under which the format copy was typed. 


This naragranh was tyned with 2 
lightly-inked riboon end 2 fairly 
EAASiN WONG, 


This versegranh wes tined rithn e 
liehntly-inked ribbon and e fairly 
light but uneven touch. 


This nererranh was tyned rith a 
lightly-inked ribbon, out with a 
heavy touch. 


This naragraoh was typed with a 
well-inked ribbon and a lieht and 
even touch. 


This naracranh was tyned with a 
well-—inked ribbon and = licht but 
uneven touch. 


This paragraph was typed with a 
heavily-inked ribbon and with a 
heavy touch. The effect is very 
unpleasant and hard to read. 


This paragraph was typed with a 
heavily-inked ribbon but with a 
lighter more even touch. 


This paragraph was typed with a 
heavily-inked ribbon and an uneven 
touch. 


This paragraph was typed by a 
trained typist at the Edwards 
Brothers establishment, using a 
carbon ribbon and a photo-offset 
typewriter. 





copy makes it customarily while preparing 
the fair copy. She does not plan to make 
a fair copy and then retype the whole text 
in order to make a couple of carbons. lets 
she is making a hectographed edition, there 
will be more of an excuse for extra typing 
simply because the typing is a smaller pro- 
portion of the cost of the whole job. The 
argument is even stronger for a permissi- 
ble separate format typing in the case of 
mimeograph, and strongest of all in the 
case of the rotaprint, multilith, or photo- 
offset processes. The shift is not techno- 
logical, but due to a change in cost per- 
spective. In relation to the expense for 
materials and paper involved in a long run 
Sapcune Trotaprint or multilith, the extra 
composition cost of an additional format 
typing seems small, while in relation to 
the corresponding expenses of a run of 
fifty hectographed copies, the additional 
typing charges seem large. Therefore, it 
can be expected that the fair copy will be 
used as format copy more often in hecto- 
graphing than in mimeographing, and in 
mimeographing more than in offset work. 


The Preparation of the Format Copy from 


the Fair Copy 
Rates for preparing the format copy 


from the fair copy are determined by the 
character of the text and by-the format and 
reproduction method chosen. As has been 
said, it takes longer to type technical ma- 
terial than non-technical, and it costs 
more to type in a two-column format than in 
a@ one-column one. Quotations from Cleve- 
land typing bureaus show that a format copy 
in two columns may be prepared from fair 
copy at an additional charge of about 30%. 
But the reproduction method chosen is the 
chief factor in determining the cost of ad- 
Gditional typing: it is just as easy to 
type on a hectograph master sheet as on or- 
dinary typewriter paper and only a little 
more difficult to cut a mimeograph stencil. 
But it is more of an art to prepare master 
copy for photo-offset reproduction. Extra 
care is required on the part of the typist 
in order to produce copy that will retain 
its legibility when its size has been de- 
creased. The best results are obtained 
when certain kinds of master paper and 
typewriter ribbons are used and when spe- 
cial typewriters like the Varityper or the 
Royal photo-offset typewriter are used; 








THE TYPESCRIPT BOOK OR MEMORANDUM Z 37 





these devices and supplies are not avail- 
able to the author or even to the average 
typing bureau, and it is for this reason 
that photo-offset companies usually prefer 
to have the master copy for photo-offset 
material prepared in their own establish- 
ments. The effect of a variation in appara- 
tus and typist's skill in the preparation 
of the format copy for photo-offset is il- 
lustrated in Figure XIX. The page has been 
printed on the same press with the other 
pages of the book; it would not be differ- 
ent from other pages except for the differ- 
ences in the original typing, as indicated 
on the sample page. 

Quotations made by photo-offset es- 
tablishments for preparing typed master 
copy for photo-offset work range from $.56 
to $1.70 per 1000 words. The usual quota- 
tion is about $1.25. The $1.70 figure was 
given for the preparation of a special two- 
column format with justified lines. One 
company quoted $1.00 per 1000 words for 
technical material in units of several hun- 
dred pages. 

As work of this type is definitely 
chargeable as composition, it is interest- 
ing to compare these rates with those of 
linotype composition: the wage cost for 
linotype composition at $1.15 per hour 
ranges from $.92 to $1.55 per 1000 words 
according to the number of ems set per hour; 
the shop price of linotype composition at 
$3.50 per machine hour ranges from $2.80 
to $4.67 per 1000 words. 

These possibilities of merging or 
shifting typescript composition costs have 
given rise to some inaccurate thinking on 
the subject of the typescript book. Some- 
times a saving in composition cost seems to 
appear like a rabbit out of a magician's 
hat. The topic is sufficiently important 
to warrant further clarifying, which may be 
set up as a formula: 


Tie Asis thie cost On making wairicopy) Lem 
draft copy, ; 
B is the cost of making format copy from 
fair copy and 
C is the cost of making format copy di- 
rectly from draft copy, 


will it always follow that A plus B is 
greater than C? Will there always be a 
saving in working directly from the draft 
copy? Obviously, the answer depe:ds upon 


58 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





the actual condition of the draft copy and 
the rigidity of the requirements of the 
fommav Copy. Lf the draftmcopyets imeaveny, 
good shape, and the material is to be hec- 
tographed or mimeographed in a standard 
typescript format, the two processes may 
well be merged and the extra typing saved. 
But if the draft copy is very rough and the 
format is a complicated one--such as a 
large two-column arrangement with foot- 
notes--to be subjected to photographic re- 
duction and multiplied by photo-offset, the 
intermediate step of making the fair copy 
is necessary. 

In general it should be noted that 
if the author completes a format copy for 
any of the typescript book publication 
processes, he absorbs the entire composi- 
tion cost of the process, as well as part 
of the editorial expense. This is not a 
true reduction of the publishing costs, but 
a concealed subsidy from the author to the 
publisher. 

The table on the following page 
shows the high variation in typescript com- 
position costs. The spread between low 
and high typescript costs is just as great 
as or greater than the spread between low 
and high linotype costs as analyzed in 
Chapeer sills Where is ne such thins sac ea 
fixed differential in composition cost as 
between typescript books on the one hand 
and printed books on the other. 


Area Costs and Format: (a) Size of Type 

If the variations in the composi- 
tion costs of a typescript book are the re- 
sults of different possibilities in the 
number of times the same matter is to be 
retyped, variations in area costs are re- 
Ssponsive to differences in format, to the 
number of words that are laid down on a 
page. 

Three factors control the number of 
words on a page: the size of the type face, 
the interlinear spacing, and the length of 
the line. Except when the Varityper or 
the rare micro-elite and ultra-micro-elite 
machines are used, or the text is multiplied 
by the photo-offset process, the choice as 
to size of type face is limited to pica or 
elite. The special format problems arising 
when photo-offset can be used to reduce 











typescript will be analyzed in the chapter 
CHcAaueorOce ssn 


(b) Interlinear Spacing 


Common to all typescript bookmaking, 
however, is the problem of interlinear 
spacing and length of line. Interlinear 
spacing as a problem in typescript format 
corresponds to leading in relief composi- 
tion. In normal size typescript the option 
is given between single space and double 
space. The standard ratchet, whether for 
elite or pica type, lays down six lines to 
the inch single-spaced, and three lines 
double-spaced. 

Opinions differ as to the best 
spacing of lines. According to Horde, con- 
text is so dominant a factor in legibility 
that no conclusion can be drawn from the 
relative effects of changes in size of type 
and leading; Vernon's work, # on the contra- 
ry, has led to a conclusion on spacing-- 
namely, that the best interlinear spacing 
for speed of reading book type is: 


Approximately 
1/10 inches (or 7 points) for Le=pt type 
1/14 inches (or 5 points) for ~S-ptertype: 
1/17 inches (or 4 points) for G=pel tyne: 


If elite typescript is taken as 
the equivalent of 10-point type, the spac- 
ing of the ordinary elite typewriter, when 
set for single spacing (six lines to the 
inch) comes very near to the ideal. The 
Spacing of pica typescript is too narrow 
when set for single-spacing, too open when 
set for double-spacing. But special ratch- 
ets laying down four, five, and five and 
one-half lines to the inch are available for 
the standard typewriters. The price, in- 
cluding installation charges, varies be- 
tween $1.50 to $5.00.5 An elite typewriter 
set single space or a pica typewriter set 
special space (five lines to the inch) 
probably offers the most efficient and leg- 
ible interlinear spacings. 

But since the standard typewriter 
equipment does not provide this spacing and 
the elite typewriters are distinctly less 
common than the pica, the most useful in- 
formation about formats must be worked out 
with the less efficient apparatus, namely, 


4, Vernon, Experimental Study of Reading (Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1931). How these spaces are measured 
is not clear. They probably do not correspond to the leading distances of typography, but ignore the 
descending letters (f, g, j, p, a, y). The writer has so interpreted them. 

5. Remington, $5.00; Royal, $1.50; Underwood, $5.00; L. C. Smith, $2.25 (Cleveland prices). 


le 


ae 


Oo 


ieee 


























THE TYPESCRIPT BOOK OR MEMORANDUM 59 
TABLE XI 
SHOWING HIGH VARIATION IN TYPESCRIPT COMPOSITION COSTS PER ONE THOUSAND 
WORDS IN PREPARING A TYPESCRIPT BOOK OF 100,000 WORDS 
FAIR COPY FORMAT COPY 
One-column, straight matter, typed 1. One-column, straight matter, made 
by typist at low wage and high ef- from fair copy and typed at typing 
Re ROU tne fain cc av gee a acai was Pare op 0 bureau estimates ...... Soha apni ade aen: chee $50 
One-column, straight matter, byied e. Two-column, straight matter, made 
by typist at high wage and high ef- from draft copy and typed at typ- 
HaINON CIC VE ree Malis eet grate o's erate! Shas ma $ 33 ER OMM OT Ce Sityalemnicli tc 1S amen etene Reem enet ener nets $.80 
One-column, straight matter, typed 5. One-column, straight matter, made 
at typing bureau estimates ........ $.40 from fair copy and typed by typ- 
ist at normal wages and normal ef- 
fielency for photo-offset work .... $.85 
One-column, straight matter, typed 4. One-column, straight matter, made 
by typist at low wage and low ef- from fair copy and typed at typing 
SUCHE TNC Vien eres, ccabstie os is releWer a) eitenee streets suckarene oa eS bureau estimates for photo-offset 
WGHIS KOM eM pe revew ettay ewer cite omic ween er Se cnclekectten shore $.90 
One column, straight matter, typed 5. One-column, technical symbols, 
from bad draft copy at typing made from fair copy and typed by 
bureau estimates .....; Phe teaehs rete ween OO typist at normal wage and normal 
efficiency for photo-offset work . $1.00 
Two-column, straight matter, typed 6. Two-column, straight matter, typed 
by typist at normal wage and nor- by typist at normal wage and nor- 
Tiel e ty te CU CTAC Var. cite aise (osvor/enelretia, sve-oceise) « eee Os) mal efficiency for photo-offset 
WRG IGiecWenes Spin rei oneestone aR a a pa nC THEME ete $1.00 
Two-column, straight matter, typed 7. One-column, straight matter, made 
Gy OUI sOUreAly Sib umaGeSs .. csc) e 5 $.70 from fair copy and cut on mimeo- 
graph stencils at typing bureau 
SS MAES a wwiss ele anew geese ee § niarenateee $1.00 
One-column, straight matter, typed 8. One-column, straight matter, made 
by typist at high wage and low ef- from fair copy and typed by 
EE CHEGTIC YS @eccils.-«. 0 aigestedetenotete: eledecers Beorpoycneache $.72 photo-offset concern at quoted 
MCS Steeeporenereneteleroatencisec cheers erereisteneh $1.25 
One-column, many technical terms 9. One-column, technical symbols, 
and unusual symbols, typed at typ- made from fair copy and typed by 
IMs buneaIVOsS tAMaLes fs... Siaicechetenseate ea photo-offset concern at quoted 
IRENE CSE Metactenasstaters ceauenetsrarale Sicha anapeherens $1.50 
Two-column, technical matter, 10. Two-column, atratent matter, typed 
typed by typist at normal wage by photo-offset concern at quoted 
EN GmERNONE IN eMlame ute HIe Sic: Vile teneuey eteyenelelrene er « $.90 ACCS Sie wane cucne tame ahora Berea oebie D Om GO ah ners 
Two-column, technical matter, 11. Two-column, technical matter, 
typed at typing bureau estimates ..$1.00 typed by typist at normal wage and 
normal efficiency for photo-offset 
W@seGamete tere icte MaremetaNevercycuel there oeiaccinrerc rere ilo) 
12. Two-column, straight matter, made 
from draft copy and cut on mimeo- 
graph stencil at typing bureau es- 
GG CIS ee staletetenersrarepersve wie tiw otelete cts ee pO 
13. One-column, straight nance made 
from fair copy, with justified 
lines and typed by photo-offset 
COMCEionme cl bm Mon COmmni= nce Sumer apercne Peo 
14. Two-column, technical matter, typed 
by photo-offset concern at quoted 
TOIMCG Sumter etsvctenereve fovelckere re ee ele Ont OMe O © 
15. Two-column, Pot) MmacLer,:) | Wabbit 





justified lines, typed by photo-off- 
set concern at quoted prices 


5 ERESOO) que) S32 


50 


40 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





pica typescript set either single or double 
space. 
(c) Length of Line 
Experimental evidence summarized by 
Vernon shows that the length of a line 
should not be greater than 10cm.or less 
than 7.5cem. (2.9" to 3.9"). Edwards Broth- 


ers in their Manual of Lithoprinting® hold 
that a maximum length of line is determined 


by the formula N 30/72 where N is the type 
size in points--a formula which yields the 
result that 5"-5.8" is the maximum length 
of line for pica type, 6.4"—-4.2" for elite 
type. These standards yield interesting re- 
sults when applied to the smaller sizes of 
print or photographically reduced typescript. 
Por surPaleny typing in full size they sug= 
gest the conclusion which must already have 
come to the minds of many readers—-that the 
standard typewriter page 8 1/2" wide must 
be used with wide margins if the script is 





to be legible. Since under some conditions 
wide margins are wasteful, there results a 
certain disharmony between the interests of 
economy and legibility in respect of length 
of line. This waste is greater in the case 
of elite typescript, where the interlinear 
spacing is more economical, than in the 
case of pica typescript. The wasterulimess 
in length of line can be overcome by set-— 
ting up a page format in two columns-—- 
though this increases composition costs - 
even while it reduces area costs. 

In the following chapter on carbon 
copying, hectographing, mimeographing, and 
photo-offset reproduction, certain alterna- 
tive formats will be presented, together 
with the cost differentials that separate 
them. The reader can judge whether the 
difference an legibility as wwor thumemeocte 





Ceetebrusiy ble cecai tion. wp. 4 


