CHAPTER XII 


PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 


In the discussion of the cost lev-— 
els and possible applications of micro- 
copying in the preceding chapter, allusion 
was made from time to time to specific 
makes of apparatus, either already on the 
market or under development. These must 
now be compared from the standpoint of 
initial cost and working efficiency. 
microcopying cameras here compared and 
noted are the following: 


The 


Class I. Cameras designed to serve for 
pictorial photography, but 
adapted to use in document copy- 


ing. 


1. Cinescopie (Belgium). 

ec. E.K.A. camera, with Lemare acces— 
sories (used by Library of Congress 
in copying foreign archives). 

5. Leica camera, with Leica accessories 
(used by many American scholars). 

4. Contax camera, with Zeiss acces— 
sories (a later product than Leica, 
but similar in many respects). 

5. Argus camera, an American camera re- 
sembling the Leica (front lens re- 
quired). 

6. Bantam kodak, an Hastman, quantity 
production, low-price camera. 

Class II. Cameras designed primarily for 
document copying. 


1. Ansco Universal copying camera. 

2. Ludwig camera, made to order (used 
at Yale University Library, New York 
Public Library). 

3. Filmograph (not on the market as ap— 
paratus). 

4. Draeger camera (used at U. S. Bureau 
of Agriculture for Bibliofilm 8erv-— 
iC6) = 

5. Commercial Recordak (used in copying 
the NRA and AAA records). 

6. Newspaper Recordak (sole installa- 
tion at Rochester). 


7. Eastman bound—volume copying camera, 
lémm. film (in process of develop- 
ment). 

8. Eastman bound—volume copying camera 
for newspapers, 55mm. film. 

9. Kennedy camera (made to order). 


10. Folmer Graflex photocopying camera 
(in course of development). 
11. Matson camera (built for Edwards 


Brothers, Ann Arbor). 


The Camera and the Use of Film 

These cameras differ greatly in re- 
spect of their use of film. One distinc- 
tion lies between the use of the long and 
short roll. All the cameras of the first 
class take a short roll of film (three to 
ten feet); all the cameras of the second 
class, except the Ansco, take a long roll 
of film (100 feet or more). The Leitz 
Company has made an intermediate camera 
that takes thirty-three feet of film. 
vantage lies with the cameras that will 
take rolls of 100 feet or more, because 
film strips of that length can take advan- 
tage of low processing costs, due to the 
development of machinery for the motion 
picture industry. 

Another distinction lies between 
the fixed and variable frames. All the 
cameras of the first class have a fixed 
frame size for each exposure; some of the 
cameras in the second class have variable 
frame sizes. The variable frame is an ad- 
vantage because it permits the more eco- 
nomical adaptation of film to copy. 

Some of the cameras of the second 
class carry the principle of variability 
to the point where they can use either 
16mm. or 55mm. film. The Draeger camera 
can even be adapted to the use of 70mm. 
film, and the Folmer Graflex machine to 
the use of paper. The more variation that 
is possible in the copying machine, the 
more closely film and copy can be adapted 
to each other. 

Two of the cameras, the E.K.A. and 


Ad- 


161 


162 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





the Filmograph, use an unperforated film; 
some of the others use film that is per- 
forated on one side only; others use film 
with perforations on both sides. The un- 
perforated film yields a larger film area 
for the same price as perforated film, but 
misses the economies that can come from 
low processing costs in processing machin- 
ery that requires perforations. The film 
perforated on both sides can be adapted to 
use in a larger number of projectors and 
to processing in a larger number of proc-— 
essing machines, but it is least economical 
in the use of the film area. Some large- 
scale processing machines will not print 
copies from a double-frame negative; they 
will work only with single-frame negatives. 
The machines that use film perforated on 
one side only compromise between the de- 
Sele eine @ ta CLeviOuane ma Sm kine manielntercls 
necessary to perforations, and the need for 
adaptation to moving picture machinery in 
processing. The characteristics of the 
different cameras in this respect are not- 
ed on the chart. 

Another camera quality that affects 
LWCmUS Cr On sia mats a tlae op bl Calensias t Crum mild 
many cases, this is sa matter of ens etii— 
ciency. The problem has been disctissed in 
the chapter above on resolving power. Since 
a lens can often be purchased separately 
from the camera, and the resolving power of 
the lens reaches a maximum with the more 
expensive lenses, the lens might be consid- 
ered separately from the camera, except for 
those cases in which the two are scld with-— 
out the possibility of substitution. The 
Recordak cameras differ from all others in 
that they use a slit rather than a full 
lens. 

One feature of the lens or focusing 
system is not unlike the control of film 
aneacmle: tSareLabvonmto stiches emolG 
fijim area. This is the ability ito vary 
the reduction ratio. Two of the Recordak 
cameras work with a fixed reduction ratio 
and fixed focus. 

A related element of structure in 
the camera is its adaptation to copying 
areas of different size. Some camera equip- 
ment, notably the E.K.A. camera with Le- 
mare Ampligraph equipment, does not easily 
lend itself to taking full newspaper pages. 
This is indeed a matter that may be con- 
trolled by the mounting of the camera rath- 
er than by the camera itself, but the 








mounting is an integral part of a well- 
designed copying equipment. 


The Camera and the Mechanics of Operation 

These cameras differ in the degree 
to which their operation is automatic, and 
hence in the labor costs of photography to 
which they give rise. 

In general the cameras of the first 
class are the least automatic, and the auto- 
matic document copying features appear in 
the cameras of the second class only. 

The features affecting labor costs 
of copying are the following: 

(a) devicgs for holding copy in place; 

(b) devices for focusing; (c) devices for 
making exposures; (d) devices for moving 
film; (e) devices for controlling relation 
of light to exposure. 

The Recordak cameras can be pro- 
vided with automatic light control; the 
Draeger and Folmer Graflex cameras have 
automatic focusing; the Ludwig camera has 
no automatic features. Sometimes the auto-— 
matic features involve hand work, in other 
cases there is a motor attachment. These 
features of automatic operation are desig- 
nated in the chart. 

Another quality is portability, 
often found inversely related to automatic 
efficiency. 

The complete equipment for micro- 
copying is often made up of so many differ- 
ent parts, or subject to such variations 
in assembly, that the chart above does not 
render a full account of the qualities of 
each machine. The machines are, therefore, 
listed here in order, with more complete 
descriptions. 


Cinescopie and Photoscopie 
A Belgium company began operations 


in the 1920's, with a catalogue list of 
"Film 'microphote' de la Photoscopie," as 

a cheap but efficient substitute for glass 
slides used in art study and visual educa- 
tion. It issued a catalogue of geographic, 
religious, scientific, and artistic sub- 
jects, and sought to interest the histori- 
cal associations and library associations 
of Europe in its use as a preserver of pic- 
torial and documentary material. The 


Photoscopie has its offices.at 121 Rue 


Berkmans, Brussels; a similar enterprise, 
the Cinescopie, is located at 29 Rue aux 
Laines, Brussels. Cinescopie, like 





163 


PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 














































































































soansodxa sT[oO2 
pue 3uyuiIn} WTTZ ZUTT[ [O14 ul X nv/e }00F 00S "septs YyyOqG 00°00¢$ 
—uod [eped yoos oTJZeMo4Ny *pexty sox uo pezedogaed * -mmc¢e ON qnoqy uoszyeW JIaqGoy mos} en 
i "9 *q fuoysuTYseM 
STIOI }00F OOOT 'gm y[nofaisy jo *4yaedaq 
suyuinj WTTJ pue *3uTzUsTT | w/t T ¥ us/T S°gois "mTTF *wwOL *Adeg WTTFOTTGTE, 0/d eioue) 
*gutwTy '3utTsnoojy ofT}ewmo4ny worly seszuey soz aessoy pue '*umg¢e **mmgT Sox q4es YON dJegeeig *H°Yy "ag Jezeeviqg 
suet 
Arejuem 
-atddns 
Uy TM *K *N 'aeqyseqooy 
soz yees Gg *mmMge Sok os* ott "OD Wepoy uewjsey yepoy wejueg 
sTessnig 
puooss 3auo TTOF tOOF OT Ynoqy soutey xe ony 662 
03 dn osamsodxe ofjyemoyny poxty sox CoGren peyerojazadun '**umg¢e | 'our 'atdoosaut9 atdooseut9 
mou fomedjy 005 CG 
eoTeay se ozts G°res SOpPTs y.0q IO auUO uesTyuotW 'roqay uuy 
auON emeg *pexTtd seq X98TI peyeisojaed '*muc¢e soz OS*ST# |:drop OTpey penoyseuseaal | sn3iy 
G-esz7 cea staeg 'farpuog any 
"muGE x IO) GoTyz STIOI 3003 2/T 9T ¢L faremey AQ sataos 
"m0g *pexT" sox aessay pey,eroszedun -umce sox OO°SOT$ | -Se00y *sSTaeg Jo esnesy Veh 
eueIy eoTeay "uu0g *UdsAeH MON 
se ezts *mml0G STLTOI 100F OOT AYTsieatug sTex epieme) 
emeg "pexta sok Greig *paeyedtosjied *wuge Sok 00*00e$ STMpN] HOTIepedg" 3TMpnyT 
emely eoTeT ; 
JO 8ZzTs JTeY STTOd Joos ¢ "K °N 'uoqmeysutTg eioweg 
-98uQd *pexTa sox si e@-9:F | *peyedojzed -mge sox 00°s9% 'dio9 oosuy ej3y | sutAdop oosuy 
uojyZutTyusem £3T3389S 
ZutuUm} witty pue '*3utT STIOI 3003 OOF qeyIeW gO yorequey *9 °F 
-1U3TT 'seasodxe ofj,emoqny eTQeTsey soz *poyerdosiedun '-muc¢e yonay Ag uo JON pue Zieqpuny Ta41e9 ydei30ml tq 
sainsodxa oTjew STTOI 3003 OOF *pe4e oftyo 'uate 
-ojne 'sjuemyoe.jye ZuTaou -iojaedun Jo pe ,eros 00°*00e¢ "aay ZUTUOURN 9GST eiemeg BUT 
-UTTJ pue 1944NYS OTJeMOYNY eTqeTsze, soz -aed -mmg¢ pue 'mgt yoni, Ag qnoqy Apeuusey *g psOTT i -fdog sApeuuey 
sTpTO2 
auoTe 200F OOT fpeqzedoz | e—Tqeqzaod AT 
WITJ *'wmMgT OJ elemed But -ied 'mmc¢e fapts auo |-ysty jou 4ynq peyuer °*K *N faaqysaeyooy | eromeg ZutTAdog 
-AdooYHoog Yepiooay se oueg aTqeTae, soz uo peyerogaed *'mmgT | pasow 3q uep 2q TTTM "OD Hepoy ueujseq | —yYoog yYepscoey 
I9A00 sseTs Jo ZuTsTed 
pue 'm[TjJ 3utusmy 'samsod STTOI | etTqeqaod AT 
-—xe 'ZutVUusTT 'aaa00 aqetd *mmge 4003 OOT {apts auo |-—YsTYy jou 4nqG peyueg "K *N 'aaqsayooy | eiemeg BSutAdog 
SseT3 jo 91vd saye} u04gNg eTqetse, sox G° Piz uo peJerojied *mm9T |peaom 3q ueD 2q TTTM *O9 Hepoy uem4sey | —Yoog Hepsoossy 
snoojz yyuow 
pexty pue 'mTTsZ Jo Bupuanz zed oo*os¢ 447) H1IOK MON 
'aut usT_T pue emytq aans apts auo yond} | 03 0O°Get "aay UOSTPeN OGE 
-odxe jo [Tor}U09 Seer eTqefsey, ON uo pajZedojaed **mmgT 4q iog squey | uoTyedodio0y yepiooey Yepsoos9y 
STTOd }00J OOT 
-geded -mmo, fsapts 
someiy yy0q pejyeioyied 'mmo, 
But eTqnop 10 1S Soave: {septs yyZoq peyzedos 00°008$ e1oueop 
-343T[T pue '3uyuan4 wmTTy aTsuts roy Io -aed -mmg¢e fapts suo qnoqy "K °N 'faeqseyooy W[TJOLOTH 
'amt} aamsodxe of ,eM0 Ny q9S aq ue soz p2-G° Sis uo pejerojied §-mmgT soz *qas JON *diog xeTjeig rzampog paoday4-040Ug 
{[pTo2 suoT A479 HIOX MON 
* LOG JOOS-G "*sSapTs YyyOq UF TM enueAy UJFTA GOP 
pexta soz gots uo peyerojazed **muce soz og*ost¢ 'our 'ssfez Tue xequoy 
eTq TTOl 30035 F/T G suet | A4T) HIOK MON 
-fTssodmyt soinsodxe eTqnop "mgs "septs 4y4Oq ZO 38uUO Ud TM "49 U0T °H_09 
soyem ceqynys sueTd [Teo0g pexta sox Gora uo pejyecogaed '*muce sox os *oet¢ "our §Z4T°eT "a eotey 
soamjyeoq oF}emMOINy aunsodxq STeT Ie ,en suey pesn WTtq jo eTqeys0g aotig qaimjzoejnuey eiaueg jo omen 
punog Adap yzsueT pue UIDTM 


oue dg 








SVUENVO ONIAdOD dO SOILSIUALOVHVHO AHTHO ONIMOHS DLYVHO 


IIATX aTavh 








ea, 


164 


Photoscopie, issues a general catalogue of 
film subjects in all fields. The specifi- 
cations of the Cinescopie camera are in- 
teresting. The machine is small: 9 1/2 

x 41/2 x 6cm. The shutter makes automat-— 
ically measured exposures up to one second, 
which is not sufficient for document copy- 
ing. The actual film carrier takes a 
length of three meters of standard 35mm. 
film, which means 120 pictures. The film 
must be loaded in the dark. A "holder con- 
taining more film is contemplated for those 
who wish to take as many as 500 or more 
views on a Single film. The camera can be 
fastened to any photo stand." The pro- 
jector goes with the camera, can be fas-— 
tened to a camera stand, and can project 
downward onto a table. The camera is the 
most portable of all; it is the only one 
that can really be carried in the pocket. 

The Cinescopie suffers by compari- 
son with the Leica or Contax camera because 
of the low resolving power of the lens. But 
the lens is satisfactory for making reduc-— 
tions of ten diameters from ordinary book 
type. The frame of exposure, while fixed, 
is smaller than the exposure frame of the 
Leica and Contax cameras, and therefore 
permits the copying of more pages per foot 
of film. The same observation applies to 
the Eastman Kodak Company's "Bantam," 
$10.50 including supplementary lens, and 
the Argus camera, $12.00 without supplemen- 
tary lens. 

For certain kinds of work, notably 
the copying of whole newspaper pages, the 
Cinescopie, Bantam and Argus would be un- 
satisfactory because of its low efficiency 
optical system. But in the ordinary copy- 
ing of books, this is not a disadvantage; 
the purchaser of the Leica or Contax cam- 
eras should be warned that he is buying 
photographic power that the fixed frame of 
the film will not permit him to use anyway 
in the copying of book pages of average 
typography and size. A principal disadvan- 
tage of the Cinescopie as an aid to the 
American scholar is the absence of a com- 
mercial organization in America to take 
care of sales. The Bantam and Argus have 
sales organization, but no equipment to 
adapt to document copying. 


The E.K.A. Camera and Lemare Ampligraph 
The camera used by the Library of 


Congress in copying foreign documents from 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


the archives was of French make, an H.K.A. 
camera manufactured by Krause of Paris, 
with accessories manufactured by Paul Le- 
mare, 73 Rue Fondary, Paris, XVI. 

In 1930 the E.K.A. camera and stand 
were quoted at 3,250 francs, and the manu- 
script box at 511 francs, the lights at 3500 
frances, not including cost of packing and 
shipping. 

The camera uses a sixteen and one- 
half foot length of unperforated 55mm. 
film, taking 100 exposures on a loading. It 
must be loaded in the dark. The dimensions 
of the exposure frame are the largest of 
any used in microcopying: 50mm. x 45mm. 
This use of unperforated film lowers the 
cost per square foot of photosensitive sur- 
fact, but the large exposure frame cancels 
some of this advantage by using more sur- 
face than would be necessary with a maximum 
reduction ratio. The unperforated film lin- 
its processing possibilities also. While 
the E.K.A. camera is theoretically perfect- 
ly adapted to the copying of newspapers, 
the Ampligraph stand that Lemare makes for 
it does not give sufficient height or area 
for this work. 


Leica and Contax Equipment 

The most widely used camera for 
document copying is neither the Belgian 
Cinescopie nor the French E.K.A., but the 
German Leica. It is a multiple purpose 
camera, a piece of precision mechanism, for 
which innumerable attachments and accesso- 
ries are available. Experiments in news— 
paper copying with the Leica were made with 
this camera in 1926 at the Hoover War Li- 
brary at Stanford University; the camera 
used by Dr. Bendikson for microcopying at 
the Huntington Library at San Marino, Cal- 
ifornia, is the Leica; Professor Krisopp 
Lake of Harvard University has used a 
Leica extensively in photographing manu- 
scripts in the Near Hast; Professor James 
A. Barnes at Temple University is another 
pioneer. The equipment has become almost 
a standard implement in research work. 

After the Leica camera had made a 
market, the Zeiss Contax camera appeared 
as a competitor. It resembles the Leica 
in its precision and its long catalogue of 
accessories. These catalogues are so ex-— 
tensive that the scholar may well ask for 
a Baedeker to guide him through them. The 
following paragraphs are written as an 





| 
| 
| 
| 


PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 


165 





FIGURE LXVI 


Leica camera, projector, and accessory lenses 


attempt at such a guide, with equipment 
designated by number and code word. The 


differences between the Zeiss and the Leica 


equipment are not significant in respect 
of adaptation to document copying. Both 
cameras used a five-foot roll of 55mm. 
film perforated on both sides. Both have 
loading magazines which can be loaded with 
film in the dark and inserted in the cam— 
era by daylight. Neither will serve as a 
document copying camera until it has been 
supplemented with certain accessories. 


(a) The Lens and Camera 

The earlier models of the Leica, 
notably Models A and B, did not have de- 
tachable lens mounts. They are no longer 
advertised in the catalogues, and are 
available mostly in the second-hand market 
at a price of about $40.00. The normal 
equipment for both cameras is a 50mm. 
f 5.5 lens; the Leica lens goes under the 
trade name of Hlmar, the Contax under the 
trade name Tessar. This standard lens, 
sold separately from the camera, is priced: 


Leitz Elmar 50mm. f 3.5 ......-.. $49.50 (50,320 ELMAR) 


Contax Zeiss Tessar 50mm. £.35.5 


49.50 


The cameras, with these lenses, are priced as follows: 


Leica Model D (50,030 LYKAN) ...... $81.00 (without lens); $130.50 
with lens. Models F and G are higher priced, but the increased price pays 
for qualities that are of no value in document photography. 


Contax Model I 


eee 


ee nice oath LOO SOON Wibil .emsr.s 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING 


166 


RESEARCH MATERIALS 





The Leica Model FF with magazine holding 
thirty-three feet of film sells for $195.00 
without lens, or $244.50 with lens. 

In order to equip these cameras for 
document photography, it is necessary ei- 
ther to have a supplementary lens that 
will focus at the necessary short distanc- 
es, or to have an attachment that will re- 
move the regular lens to a greater than 
normal distance from the camera. 

The supplementary lenses are sold 
at the following prices: 


the extension tube is used, however, the 
photographer must have a special device 
for checking the accuracy of his focusing. 
When the front lens is used, he can meas— 
ure the distance from camera to object and 
focus the lens on a calibrated scale; when 
an extension tube is used, he must be able 
to focus directly "on eround class. sinese 
is no technical reason for this, for the 
Leitz Company might prepare scales that 
would permit measured focusing with each 
of the extension tubes. But in the ab-— 


Leitz Front Lens, No. 1 (minimum area covered in copying, 8" x 12"; 
57; TOON RUPRO) Most weirs me On oO 

Leitz Front Lens, No. 2 (minimum area covered in copying, 5" x 8"; 
57.7 DOM ELPIK ites ee vie siemevrte sy woe 
Contax (Zeiss) Proxar supplementary lenses, corresponding to 
the above Leitz supplementary lenses, are listed but not priced 


in the catalogue material. 


The Contax catalogue also refers 
to three Delta lenses, which are sold at 
$7.50 the set (#5520); these seem to cor- 
respond to the Leica front lenses in copy- 
ing work. 

With these supplementary lenses, 
the camera can be brought near enough to a 
page to make the page fill the whole frame 
of the film. The reduction ratio involved 
in the use of Front Lens No. 1 in copying 
a normal spread of two book pages with the 
Leica is a little more than eight diamet-— 
ers. In copying ordinary books, this re- 
duction ratio, or something near it, is 
the only one that is possible because of 
the fixed frame size of the exposure area 
on the film. It must be noted that much 
of the high optical quality of the Leica 
and Contax cameras and lenses goes to waste 
in copying ordinary books because of the 
large fixed frame of the film, which does 
not suit reductions of ordinary pages to 
the high ratios that the resolving power 
of lens and film would otherwise make pos- 
sible. 

The alternative to the use of front 
lens equipment is the use of an extension 
tube, which is screwed into the lens mount. 
The extension tube, by increasing the dis- 
tance between lens and film, makes it pos-— 
sible to bring the camera nearer to the 
object that is being copied, and hence to 
cover the full frame of the film with the 
image of a smaller object than the normal 
mechanics of the camera would Permist. welt 





sence of such scales, the use of the ex— 
tension tube is tied with the use of "slid- 
ing focusing copying attachment," Model I 
or Model II. 

The sliding focusing copying at-— 
tachment is a device in which the lens is 
mounted in a holder that carries a ground 
glass at exactly the film distance from the 
lens. The camera, loaded with film, can 
be slipped away from the lens without 
spoiling the film; the focus can then be 
adjusted by watching the ground glass. 

Then the camera can be slipped back into 
place and the picture taken. The differ— 
ence between Model I (57,600 FULDY), which 
sells for $24.75, and Model II (57,610 
FULET), which sélis for -$13is0) 2s" thar 
the more expensive model lets the camera 
slide back and forth in front of the lens 
in grooves, while the Model II makes it 
necessary for the operator to remove the 
camera and lay it down on the table while 
focusing on the ground glass. 

The Contax camera uses another de- 
vice to secure the same result, for the 
Contax, unlike the Leica, has a removable 
back. The camera is unloaded, a piece of 
ground glass fitted in the place of the 
film, the focusing adjusted, and the camera 
reloaded. The ground glass focusing system 
of the Contax is much less convenient than 
that of the Leica because of the necessity 
of unloading the camera for each focusing 
operation. The ground glass focusing 
screen sells for $4.50 (#5520). 





PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 


167 





With the camera adapted for ground 
glass focusing, the extension tube princi- 
ple can be applied. The Leica extension 
tubes are priced as follows: 


greater convenience in ground glass focus-— 
ing with the Leica attachments. 

The photographer now has his cam—- 
era fixed to a bracket, but the bracket 


57,6o5 (FUROR), le2em. extenston tube ..5..... $1.80 


57,640" (UBECD)*, 2. eem. extenaton tube i sa..... 


Either of these extension tubes 
will be sufficient for all ordinary docu- 
ment copying, but a tube that will permit 
the photographing of even smaller areas is 
the 3cm. tube, which sells for $2.10. 

A study of the Zeiss catalogue 
does not show any attachment corresponding 
exactly to the Leitz extension tubes. Ap- 
parently the Delta lenses take the place 
of extension tube equipment. Therefore, 
the inconvenience of ground glass focusing 
with the Contax can be avoided, since the 
camera with the front lenses can be brought 
into focus at measured distances over meas— 
ured areas by consulting a table. 

To summarize: in order to adapt 
the camera for document copying, the pho- 
tographer needs as a minimum, (a) Leica: 
either front lens ($6.50), or extension 
tube and sliding focusing copying attach- 
ment ($1.20 plus $13.50; total, $14.50); 
(b) Contax: three Delta lenses ($7.50). 

The camera is now adapted to docu-— 
ment copying from the optical standpoint. 
It remains to prepare a stand that will 
hold it in position. Here again a number 
of alternatives present themselves, but 
the minimal equipment is a sliding arm 
that will hold the camera and slide up and 
down on a rod. 

The Leica sliding arm (57,620 
VEARM) sells for $10.50; the corresponding 
Contax item is called a "reproduction brack- 
et" (4995/32) and is priced at $27.00. The 
Contax bracket includes an attachment that 
is very useful, namely, a steel tape at-— 
tached to the bracket to make measurement 
of distance from camera to baseboard a 
simple operation. Note that the greater 
convenience in measured distance focusing 
with the Contax bracket contrasts to the 

Leica: Camera and lens ... 


Say ee IeMerenterere 


Pillar and baseboard (home manufacture) .... 


Optical adaptation for document copying .... 


iO 


must be mounted on an upright rod, and the 
upright rod, attached to some kind of a 
base before he can begin work. The Leitz 
Company sells for $103.50 a "universal re- 
production device" of basic equipment, 
which consists of baseboard, upright pil- 
lar, sliding arm, and steel tape measure. 
This equipment includes a special type of 
sliding arm that is especially convenient 
in using the ground glass focusing attach— 
ment. But the essentials are the pillar 
and the baseboard. Bought separately, the 
collapsible upright pillar (57,524 ZSLOO) 
costs $31.50, the baseboard (VAFOO) has no 
separate price listed in the catalogue. 
The combination pillar and baseboard in 
the Contax catalogue is listed at $12.00 
(#1454/28). 

The Leitz Company also offers a 
highly portable apparatus that will serve 
for taking ordinary book pictures, the name 
is "collapsible table reproduction device" 
(57,679 OOZIS), and it costs $35.00. There 
should be a quotation for a non-collapsible 
upright pillar in the 1935 Leica catalogue 
but the writer does not) find its) in 19353 
the 100cm. metal pillar was quoted at $8.00 
(35,463 VERYN). 

But the photographer can take leave 
of the catalogue and its prices when he has 
the sliding arm or bracket, for the base- 
board is nothing but a board, and the pil- 
lar nothing but a column which can be made 
from any ordinary steel tubing, fitted to 
a flange and screwed to a board base. The 
writer made one for $1.50, and many schol- 
ars have built the mountings for their 
Leica cameras in various designs. 

To summarize, the following mini- 
mum investment is required in setting up 
Leica or Contax document copying equipment: 


$130.50 
6.50 (or $14.70) 

10.50 

1.50 


$149.00 


168 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





Combax ye Camex care wl CIS minster ete siehetensts ivhise Oe vee eae SLOOL OO | 
Opt Calvad ap ta CLO cs caersterstetere tore! etanene siete adetebere Tio @ 
PLLA ne A Dra Ck eis lsieis ce steneneretetevetenatereletaletenereielte one 27.00 
Pillar and baseboard (home manufacture) ... coo 
$166.50 


It remains to set up the lighting 
system. The lighting fixtures included in 
the Leica and Contax catalogues are not 
photographically superior to those that can 
be rigged from materials purchasable at the 
hardware store. Ordinary lighting fixtures 
with electric cords and plugs provide the 
source of illumination, and a system of re- 
flectors must be used. 

The account here made of the light- 
ing problem is applicable to any installa- 
tion. If it is desired to hold down the 
pages that are to be copied by means of a 
glass plate laid on them, the lights must 
be set far enough to the side so that they 
do not reflect from the glass into the lens. 
This side illumination requires more light 
than vertical illumination. Most ordinary 
lighting fixtures concentrate the light in 
spots; to distribute it evenly over the 
material to be copied is a principal objec— 
tive of the photographer. This can be 
done by using reflectors with non-parabolic 
curves, and by diffusing the light through 
semi-transparent tissues such as tracing 
cloth or lens paper. The diffusion screen 
absorbs a large amount of light, and, 
therefore, makes necessary higher power 
lights or longer exposure time than would 
otherwise be called for. 

The purchaser of photographic 
equipment will find opportunity in the Leica 
or Contax catalogue to invest a small for- 
tune, but the minimum essentials are those 
set forth above. 


The Argus 


A camera and projector combination 
that deserves close watching is the Argus, 
manufactured by the International Radio 
Corporation of Ann Arbor Michigan. The 
camera resembles the Leica in many re- 
spects, but sells for $12.50. At the time 
of writing the tests of the camera for 
document copying had not been made, but the 
manufacturers are considering an adaptation 
to document copying. There is also a pro- 
jector, that is priced at $25.00, and this 
may be developed by means of supplementary 


attachments into a reading machine. - 

The Argus camera will never develop 
the automatic features proposed in the 
Draeger or the Folmer Graflex; it probably 
will not attain the optical efficiency of 
the Leica or Contax. But it may well turn 
out to be the American substitute for Leica 
and Contax, for it is going on wthesmarkes 
at the low prices that quantity production 
permits. 


Ansco Universal Still-Film Copying Camera 


The cheapest of the many cameras 
designed specifically for document copying 
is the Ansco Universal Still-Film copying 
camera, which sells for $50.00 including 
camera mount. The lens is mounted on a 
frame facing a vertical copy board which 
can be clamped in position at any distance 
up to three feet from the lens. The copy 
board will hold a sheet 11" x 14", which 
is the largest size that can be photo- 
graphed conveniently with this apparatus. 
The frame of film exposed is just half the 
size of the Leica or Contax area; it is a 
single frame camera, whereas the Leica and 
Contax are double frame cameras. This 
smaller area of film should call for high- 
er optical efficiency in the lens, but in 
fact the lens system is much less efficient. 
Nevertheless, two pages of a book in large 
print, or one page of a book in small print, 
can be copied with this camera. 

The focusing is done in a way that 
suggests the sliding focusing copying at- 
tachment of the Leica camera. The lens is 
fastened to a board, behind which two cham-— 
bers can be moved. One chamber contains 
the film, the other is backed with ground 
glass. The chamber with the ground glass 
is placed behind the lens, and the copy is 
brought into focus. Then the film chamber 
is moved behind the lens and the film ex- 
posed. There is no shutter on the lens. 
The exposure is made by removing a lens 
cap. 

The principal deficiencies of the 
apparatus, apart from the low quality of 
the lens, are the absence of any device to 





PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 


let the photographer know when he has used 
up his roll of film and the vertical posi- 
tion of the copy stand. The film load- 
ings are very short--only three feet. A 
loading is fitted into a small wooden box, 
the box slipped into place in the film 
chamber, and a piece of the film drawn over 
some sprocket wheels. It is difficult 
but not impossible to reload the film mag- 
azine from a long roll of raw film. The 
film loadings, including the wooden maga- 
zine, are sold by the Ansco Company for 
$.50; they contain only $.06 worth of film. 
The film is moved by a downward pressure of 
the hand over the sprocket wheels. But 
there is no signal to let the operator 
know when he has used up his three feet of 
ee al Juin. 

Moreover, the holding of copy is 
very difficult. A book refuses to stand 
up with flat open pages, and even separate 
documents are not easily clamped in place. 
There are some good ideas in the design, 
but the equipment is certainly not suited 
to the needs of anyone who has more than an 
occasional document to copy. 


The Ludwig Camera 
The photographer of Yale University 


Library, Mr. Frederick Ludwig, has designed 
a camera based on the lens system and frame 
size of the Leica, but capable of holding 
@ longer roll of film. His apparatus is a 
wooden camera, with a detachable lens, and 
a unique focusing system. The wide aper- 
ture of the 50mm. f 3.5 lens admits so 
much light that the ordinary process film 
acts like a piece of ground glass in focus— 
ing. There is a tube through which the 
operator can look at the back of the film 
while focusing. The frame used for this 
purpose is spoiled, but the convenience of 
focusing is so great that the loss of mate— 
rial can be ignored. The film is turned 
by hand; the exposure can be made with a 
shutter mount or by removing a lens cap 
from the lens. The focusing is quickly 
done, but it is often not accurate enough 
to take full advantage of the efficiency 
of the lens. This makes little difference 
in copying ordinary book pages, because the 
large frame size of the camera exposure 
calls only for reductions of the range of 
ten diameters. 

Mr. Ludwig has built a number of 
these cameras to order. They are the 


169 





least expensive of the document cameras 
that take the 100 foot roll of film ($50.00 
for the camera without the lens; $15.00 
for the stand and bracket). 

One of these cameras is installed 
in the New York Public Library, another was 
bought by the Carnegie Endowment for Inter- 
national Peace for copying Peace Conference 
documents, another is in use in Spain. for 
copying documents that are studied at New 
Haven by Professor Rose of the Yale facul- 
Lyi 


The Matson Camera 

Edwards Brothers of Ann Arbor ar- 
ranged for the construction of a special 
document copying camera. Their designer, 
Mr. Robert Matson, started with a motion 
picture camera and adapted it to document 
photography. It has the smaller frame of 
exposure, thus permitting higher reduction 
ratios in book copying. It also has some 
automatic features, notably a foot pedal 
that makes the exposure and turns the film. 

Consumers Research, Inc., made an- 
other document copying camera from a mo- 
tion picture camera. Cameras adapted from 
motion picture apparatus start with the 
smaller frame size, the longer roll of filn, 
and the rudiments of an automatic exposure 
system. In this respect, they are more 
promising than the Leica as the basic de- 
sign for a document copying camera. 


The Filmograph and Kennedy Cameras 
Mr. H. C. Lambach of Seattle and 


Mr. Lloyd B. Kennedy of Warren, Ohio en- 
tered upon microcopying as a means of set-— 
ting up the records of title abstract com-— 
panies. They worked independently of each 
other into this field in the 1920!s and 
1930's, and each designed his own micro- 
copying apparatus. In both cases, the 
automatic principle was carried forward to 
a high degree of perfection. 

The Kennedy camera takes a long 
roll of film--1000 feet--but, of course, 
any part of it can be cut off and devel- 
oped when exposed. The shutter and ratch-— 
et to turn the film are operated by a mo- 
tor. The ratchet can be set to move the 
film any chosen distance for each exposure, 
and windows of varying sizes can be fitted 
in front of the film to vary the area of 
exposure. A variable frame necessitates 
the use of a lens large enough to cover 


70 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





the largest frame, hence a loss in resolv- 
ing power. Hither perforated or unperfor- 
ated film can be used. In building a new 
camera, Mr. Kennedy would equip it to take 
el then emmy orp obmmen ta dins 

The lighting system is wired to a 
rheostat and voltmeter to stabilize the 
light intensity. In focusing, Mr. Kennedy 
makes a test strip to find the best chem- 
ieal (as distinguished from visible or op-— 
tical) focus, and then hooks his lens 
mount in the correct position. The focus- 
ing is more accurate but also more trou- 
blesome than with the Ludwig or Leica cam- 
eras. 

The most interesting part of the 
Kennedy machine is the automatic device by 
which the exposure is made and the film 
turned by pressing a glass plate down on 
the page to be copied. An electric cir- 
cuit, made and broken by contacts on the 
wooden frame that holds the glass, opens 
and closes the shutter, moves the film, 
and then rings a bell to tell the operator 
that the exposure is made and he can turn 
another page. 

Mr. Kennedy counts on a speed of 
5,000 exposures (10,000 pages) per day. He 
will manufacture this machine to order for 
a price somewhere near $300.00 and design 
into it such features as the purchaser may 
desire. The Filmograph equipment is not 
on the market. 


The Draeger Camera 

The Filmograph and Kennedy cameras 
were designed for use in copying title doc-— 
uments for abstract companies; the Draeger 
camera was designed for copying library 
material and research documents. 

The Draeger camera is used in the 
Bibliofilm Service of the Library of the 
Department of Agriculture, and is installed 
in the Library of Congress. It takes 16m. 
and 65mm. film, and can use a special 7Omm. 
magazine. The lens is £:6.5; the frame of 
the film is variable, ranging from 1/2" to 
1 1/2" along the length of the film; the 
film roll is 500 or 1000 feet; the opera-— 
tion is entirely automatic, only the turn- 
ing of the book pages being required of 
the operator. 

There is a prospect thav the can— 
era will be manufactured to order for li- 
braries that intend to use it for develop-— 
ing a microcopying service. Dr. Draeger 








FIGURE LXVII 


Draeger camera (early model) 


is interested in developing the design of 
the camera to meet the needs of scholars. 


The Folmer Graflex Camera 

Mr. Edson S. Hineline, engineer 
of the Folmer Graflex Corporation, is work-— 
ing out a camera which will have extraor- 
dinary utility. The camera, now in the 
course of development, is expected to take, 
through interchangeable magazines, any one 
of four types of sensitized material: 
strips of paper 7Omm. wide; 35mm. double- 
perforated film; 16mm. film perforated on 
one side; and 70mm. film with double per- 
foration. The Factograph paper and the 
film strips will be loaded in 100-foot 
lengths. The possibility is anticipated 
of either loading film purchased in bulk 
in a dark room, or of loading specially 
prepared rolls of film in daylight. 

With the 35mm. film, it will be 
possible to make not only the conventional 
double frame full-size exposure, but a sin- 
gle frame exposure one-half the customary 
size. This will permit conforming to the 
principle of maximum utilization of area 
without sacrificing simplicity and uni- 
formity in projection and reading. 

The camera will be provided with a 








FIGURE LXVIIT 


New Folmer Graflex Camera 





PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 


self-supporting stand, consisting of a 
sturdy separable upright column attached 
to the base. When the base is closed, it 
becomes the case for carrying the camera 
and its accessories. The case will be ap- 
proximately 11" x 17" x 6", 

The illumination will be provided 
by photo flood lamps supported from the 
main column in such a manner as to permit 
movement and adjustment to any conceivable 
location. The photo flood lamps will be 
connected with the resistor, which pro- 
vides reduced intensity in the illumina- 
tion except during the brief interval re- 
quired for the exposure. This will not on 
ly prolong the life of the lamp, but will 
reduce possibility of eyestrain on the 
part of the operator. 

The shutter can be set to prede- 
termined exposure time within a broad 
range. The entire operation of the outfit 
after placing the book in proper position 
will be automatically governed by air pres— 
sure emanating from a foot treadle which 
will turn on the lights to full photo flood 
intensity, advance the film, and make the 
exposure of pre-determined duration. This 
will leave both hands free for the manipu- 
lation of the materials to be copied. A 
book cradle, which will be available as an 
accessory, will serve to keep the materi- 
als to be copied in the plane of focus 
through upward pressure against a plate 
glass. 

The value of the machine as a de-— 
vice for copying documents and books re- 
sults from the fact that it is designed 
for this specific purpose, and does not 
sacrifice this purpose to others, such as 
landscapes and art photography. Just as 
a Leica camera will do a great many things 
in pictorial photography, but only a few 
in document photography, so this camera 
has a marvelous elasticity in meeting the 
problems of reproducing research materials, 
but will not do landscape or art work. 

If the scholar wants the cheapest 
possible paper copies, he can get them di- 
rectly by loading the camera with Facto- 
graph paper (not indirectly, as in the 
Leica system, by photographing on film and 
enlarging). If he has a series of short 
items to be copied and filed separately, 
he can take them on paper or film cut in- 
to short lengths. If he has a long series 
to copy, he can take it on long rolls, 





byes 





like those that are made with the Recordak 
machine. 

The development of this machine 
will be watched with special interest by 
scholars, because this camera is being de- 
signed for prospective quantity production 
and sales at a price that will attract in- 
dividual buyers. The other automatic cam- 
eras are being developed more for the use 
of libraries with microcopying services. 
The price of this camera cannot be an- 
nounced as yet, and the design is not final- 
ly established. It is hoped, however, that 
it will be adaptable to copying for any pro- 
jection equipment, that the price will be 
something near the level of a typewriter, 
and that it may become for the next gener-— 
ation of scholars as indispensable as the 
typewriter. 


The Recordak Bound-Book Copying Camera 
The Eastman Kodak Company is devel-— 


oping a camera for copying bound materials. 
While it is still in an wnfinished stage, 
some details of the new camera are known. 
The camera will be movable but, to quote 
Eastman, "it would hardly be called port- 
able." There are two models, one for 16mm. 
film and another for 35mm. film. This film 
will be taken in 100-foot rolls. The lens 
used will be an Anastigmatic one with f:4.5 
opening. Books up to 12" x 16" and up to 
5" thick can be copied. The machine is de- 
signed to be almost entirely automatic. It 
will be motor driven and a touch of a but- 
ton will automatically bring down the glass 
cover, insuring the material to be copied 
being under the focal plane. The same 
touch will light the lights for illumina-— 
tion, make the exposure, advance the exact 
amount of film required for the next expo- 
sure, and finally raise the glass cover so 
that the book is free for the next page to 
be turned. An automatic device will take 
care of raising the book to compensate for 
the decreasing thickness of the book as 
pages are turned. 

For setting up the machine to copy 
a book, a light is projected through the 
film aperture onto the book, throwing a 
square or oblong form of light onto the 
page to show exactly how much of the page 
is being covered at that particular degree 
of reduction and setting the aperture di- 
aphragm. The camera is then raised or low-— 
ered so that the width of this light 


aes METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


fed into a roller, which carries them 
through the photographic field. They are 
photographed while in motion, the light re- 
flected from the paper passing through a 
Gulalic, Tae) fl fulenaleaves aeoslil (ent eal dials, 

The Recordak machines are fixed 
focus machines. One model is set to make 
reductions of sixteen diameters, another 
of seventeen, a third of eighteen and one- 
half, and the highest of twenty-three di- 
ameters. The twenty-three diameter reduc— 
tion is satisfactory for good typescript 
copy, but. not for six-point type. 

The machines are leased, not sold. 
The lease price is $35.00 a month for a | 
year's rental, $50.00 for shorter periods. 
The processing price and the price of con- 
venient reels and boxes for film storage 
are included in the price of the film—- | 
$5.50 for a 200-foot roll. These models 
all use 16mm. film perforated on one side. 





The Newspaper Recordak 
The newspaper Recordak machine is 


FIGURE LXIX simply a machine of similar design to the 
commercial Recordak which will take a larg- 
Recordak copying camera er Sheet of paper on its roller and photo- 
; graph it on $65mm. film. The reduction ra-— 
exactly takes in the width of the printed tio is sixteen diameters. Only unbound 


matter to be copied. When this is set, newspapers can be photographed. The news— 
the diaphragm of the aperture is adjusted paper Recordak is not available for use 

so that the length of light fits the except at Rochester, consequently the 

the aperture diaphragm automatically sets ter for copying. If the scale of business 
the advancing mechanism of the film, so should warrant it, the machine could prob- 
that just the right amount of film to cov— | ably be supplied to institutions for lease 
er this space is advanced after every ex- or purchase. 


posure is made. 
Projector Reading Machines 


The Recordak Camera In Chapter XI, the problem of the 
The original development of the design of the projector was analyzed for 
Recordak equipment was in the field of mi- | its bearing on reduction ratio and stand- 


crocopying unbound documents. The machine | ardization. In this chapter, the approach 
was first designed for use in banks in the | will be somewhat different. Each make of 


copying of checks; then its use was ex- projector will be examined from the stand- 
tended to the copying of other documents, point of reading convenience, and the opti- 
such as charge slips in department stores. cal quality of each will be regarded as on- 
The first large-scale use of it for schol- | ly one of a number of important qualities. 


arly purposes was the copying of the AAA The projector is related to the 

and NRA hearings. microcopy in three ways: first, it must 
The machine is about the size of a | enlarge the microcopy to legible size; sec— 

small typewriter desk. It is foolproof, ond, it must conform mechanically to the 

not only in operation, but also in process-—| width and perforation of film; third, it 

ing, for the Recordak Corporation combines | must adapt itself to the length of the film 

the sale of its processing service with TOs. 


| 
| 
length of the material. This setting of files of newspapers are shipped to Roches— 
the sale of film. The loose sheets are There are three families of | 





roe 





sa 


MEA ATA ee OF 











See ERNE TENT 


FIGURE LXX 


Recordak Projector 





PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 


DUOVeCUOrSw ee Lie firsieconsi sts of) those 
that are essentially of the "magic lan- 
tern" type, intended for displaying pic- 
tures on a screen, and that are adaptable 
TOmoteenecddingts Ol films. Thesmost impor 
tant of these are the products of the 
Spencer Lens Company (the Delineascope), 
the Bausch and Lomb Company (the Balopti- 
con), and the E. Leitz Company. All of 
them throw the image against a screen, 
from which the reader reads by reflected 
light. None of them offers high conveni- 
ence in loading the film or in moving it 
from page to page while reading. Mr. 
Lloyd B. Kennedy has a reading machine 
that reflects the image from two mirrors 
successively, thus bringing it close to 
the reader's eye. 

The second family is the reading 
machine type, developed for the specific 
purpose of reading film. All of these ma- 
chines meet in one way or another the spe- 
cial problem of loading the film for read- 
ing. They fall into two main classes: 
those that project the image on a ground 
glass screen, so that the reader is con- 
fronted with transmitted light; and those 
that project on a reflecting screen, so 
that the reader encounters reflected 
Licht Lhe wwriverls "experiments, sand) the 
observations of others, have induced a be- 
lief that the transmitted light is more 
fatiguing than the reflected light. Ac-— 
cording to Mr. Verneur Pratt of Interna- 
tional Filmbook Corporation, this general- 
ization is not true, but is the result of 
the use of the wrong translucent screens. 

UNC MEU Alea Cl MuincinIlnysa GaN Os| CC OL Gms 
the combination camera and projector. 

Another type of combination is 
found in the union of an enlarging with a 
projecting device. A projector that throws 
a right image through a translucent screen 
will not serve for an enlarger, because 
sensitive paper laid on such a screen will 
develop a mirror image. The projectors 
that throw the image on a screen for re- 
flection to the eye can be converted into 
enlargers by excluding all light from the 
screen except the light that comes through 
the iens. 

The chart of projectors shows the 
qualities of each in these respects, as 
Well as their optical qualities and film 
adaptability. 

The development of the reading ma- 











173 


chines is moving so rapidly that anything 
written at this moment will probably be out 
of date in a few months. The prospective 
purchaser of equipment should make inquir-—- 
ies of the following firms before making a 
decision: 


Recordak Corporation 
550 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 


International Filmbook Corporation 
Rockefeller Center 
New York, New York 


Spencer Lens Company 
Buffalo, New York 


Bausch and Lomb Company 
Rochester, New York 


Folmer Graflex Corporation (for com- 
bination camera and projector) 
Rochester, New York 


Ure a. Heevraceera (Us oe Navy) 
Care of Bibliofilm Service 
Department of Agriculture Library 
Wats laein eu Oar, mom Crone 


With the reservation that all in- 
formation here given should be checked 
against the developments of the next few 
months, there are a number of points of 
practical comparison between the different 
makes of projectors now being designed or 
manufactured. 

The best established projectors 
are those of the magic lantern type, for 
their manufacture has been launched for 
other purposes than reading. All of them 
have the weakness that they are primarily 
adapted to a longer distance projecting 
than is convenient in reading. The Bausch 
and Lomb Balopticon and the Spencer Lens 
Delineascope take perforated film; the 
Leica projectors take unperforated. The 
Balopticon and Delineascope are more eas— 
ily loaded than the Leica, for they receive 
the film from the side, while the Leica re- 
ceives it from the end. 

Neither the Balopticon nor the De- 
lineascope is equipped with lenses that 
equal the 50mm. £:5.5 Leica camera lens, 
which can be mounted on a Leica projector. 
If a film copy of a newspaper page reduced 


174 


eighteen diameters is projected on a 
screen, only about one-third of one-half of 
the area will be delineated clearly. If 
the center is brought into focus, the edg- 
es will blur; if the text at the edge is 
brought into focus, the center will blur. 
Since the entire page area is illuminated, 
buteonly 2 park of Libbroughtvinteuiocus, 
there is a certain wastage of light. 

The first of the specialized read- 
ing machines were those developed by Filmo-— 
graph and Kennedy. Filmograph worked out 
a method of mounting projectors of the 
magic lantern type several feet above the 
heads of the readers and controlling the 
movement of the film by means of a long 
belt. This device must have meant diffi- 
culty in loading. Kennedy set the projec-— 
tor near the reader's hand and then placed 
a mirror about three feet from the projec— 
tor to reflect the image back to a second 
mirror and thence to a screen. Both the 
devices thus got the necessary distance 
Thomo jeCGd Ol. 

The sii st 
machines used the 


of the Recordak reading 
principLesoi iGhesmd sao 
and ground glass, resembling in this re- 
spect the Kennedy apparatus. Later they 
were shifted to the principle that had 
been used in the Filmograph—-the image was 
projected downward on a reflecting surface 
--and the movement of the film strip in 
front of the lens was controlled by a wheel 
set conveniently near the right hand of 
the reader. 

; The design of the International 
Filmbook apparatus is still undetermined in 
many respects. Its primary quality at the 
moment is a device for foolproof loading 
from a special cartridge, and a provision 
for the movement of the film to avoid abra- 
sion. It will use the translucent screen 
for a reading surface. 

Because Kennedy and Filmograph were 
exposing a large area of film, i.e., had a 
large aperture, they needed a long distance 
to get their projectea image in focus. The 
Recordak, with a film area only about 16mm. 
x 2£0mm., could use a cheaper lens, shorter 
distance, and less light with the same re— 
sult in legibility. The International 
Filmbook equipment seems to be carrying the 
principle of small aperture further than 
it is carried by the Recordak. 

When the newspaper Recordak was 
developed, to read a newspaper page 18" x 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


ee" on a double frame of 55mm. film, the 
problem of projection resembled that which 
Kennedy and Filmograph had met by provid- 


ing a long distance between lens and screen. 


The Recordak technicians met this problem 
ingeniously by retaining substantially the 
same optical system that had been worked 
out for the small Recordak, and exposing 
only one-fourth of the newspaper filmslide 
to the light. Since the reader cannot 
cover with his eye at a reading distance 
more than one-fourth of a newsprint page, 
it was a happy idea to project only a part 
of the full page at a time. A lever with- 
in easy range of the left hand moves the 
fan iain eis OT yO te oem hCTA Sh, mart atl Sampo men carer 
the different parts of the page successive-— 
ly into view. 

A problem in all projectors is the 
ability to turn the film through ninety de— 
grees, or to manage in some way to read 
microcopies which have lines running across 
the film strip and also those with lines 
STP UAT YA Sr) ea Las SUL ter) acs et pl SO us clie (pag cee 
Draeger hes been most successful in solving 
this problem. The Recordak library projec-— 
tor has hardly mes itvatwali) Les intiermaa= 
tional Filmbook Corporation has given it 
full attention. In the) projectors on sine 
magic lantern type, this problem is easily 
met by turning the film holder through 
ninety degrees. 

Another unsolved problem in projec— 
tor reading machines is that of shifting 
from small aperture-high enlargement to 
large aperture-low enlargement by changing 
lenses and condensers. Of course, a pro- 
jector of the magic lantern type will give 
enlargements in any required degree, but 
Only at, they sacri Cerone iemsiapyaere ieee 
lumination. <A projector to meet all pur- 
poses would be one which could be fitted 
with a lens and condenser that would magni- 
fy a double frame 35mm. film by ten diame- 
ters, and then by some simple shift could 
be changed to magnify a single frame 16mm. 
film by twenty-five diameters. Such a pro- 
jector would read any microcopies now be-— 
ing made. The International Filmbook Pro- 
jector is to have a turret of three lenses, 
and a slide with two condensers, to serve 
[laiakpss aetaeLfeWoubal ale « 

The Recordak, and presumably the 
International Filmbook, Draeger, and Folmer 
Graflex projectors, will be provided with 


Lf ee that will make it possible to run 





| 





FIGURE LXXI 


Teledex Projector 








FIGURE LXXII 


Spencer Projector 





PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PROJECTING APPARATUS 


either 16mm. or 35mm. film; but none of 
them will permit a shift in aperture and 
enlargement ratio. 

Another key problem in the design 
of projectors is the ease of loading and 
place finding. The tendency of design in 
place. finding--which is important for long 
runs-—-is to introduce some kind of calibra- 
tion which permits the reader to turn 
quickly to the desired place in the roll of 
film. The corresponding requirement for 
short runs is ease and rapidity of loading. 
The best apparatus from this standpoint 
would be one which could be loaded, either 
with a reel or a short strip of film, from 
the sitting reading position, without 
stretching the arm upward or outward. If 
loading could be made as easy as turning 
the pages of a book, the use of short-run 
film copies would be greatly facilitated. 

While these observations are in 
some respect inconclusive, they do support 
the conclusion that the problems of design 
in reading machines are rapidly finding so- 
aUG OTs 


Projector—and-Enlargement Equipment 


The combination of projector read- 
ing with enlarging machinery has already 
been noted as a possibility, and the pos-— 
sible development of low cost levels in 





175 


making enlargements on paper from film has 
been mentioned. Dr. Draeger is designing 
an automatic enlarger that should give 
speeds of 5,000 to 10,000 pages a day. The 
essentials of such an enlarger are merely 
the automatic stepping of the film in front 
of the lens, the automatic control of light 
and exposure time, and efficient devices 
for paper holding. 

Dr. Vernon D. Tate, of the National 
Archives, is working out another important 
part of the program of microcopying devel- 
opment. He is interested in the standard- 
izing of instructions covering light intens- 
ities, exposure times, and processing. The 
conditions under which document copying 
takes place are subject. to a far higher de- 
gree of standardization than those under 
which pictorial photography is carried on. 
The object photographed is a black and 
Woittes. theslizhieis usually wartificialy, 
and the range of distances and reduction 
ratios is small as compared with those en- 
countered in general photographic practic— 
es. The emphasis in the technique is def- 
initely placed on fineness of grain and 
high contrast. If the average research 
worker can be trained to be his own pho- 
tographer, and to make enlargements from 
his own microcopy films, the resulting re- 
lease from burdensome mechanical work in 
the collecting and organizing of material 
should have a marked effect on intellectu- 
al standards in research. 






































































































































































































































176 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 
TABLE XLVIII 
CHART GIVING CHIEF CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTORS 
Name of Port- Ty PesoL Loading 
Projector Manufacturer Price able | Film Used Machine Screen System 
Balopti- | Bausch and Lomb Can use Magic Reflected Side 
con Go. 55mm. with | lantern light 
Rochester, N. Y. special 
attachment 
Argus International 55mm. dou- | Magic Reflected Side 
Radio Corp. ble frame lantern light 
Ann Arbor 
Delinea— | Spencer Lens Co. | About Can use Magic Reflected Side 
scope BurtalosaN. oy $75.00 35mm. lantern light 
Teledex International Somm. per- | Reading Transmitted] Film 
Filmbook Corp. forated or | machine on translu-—| car- 
Goes unperfor- cent screen) tridges 
ated 
Optigraph| International About Yes 16mm. or Reading Transmitted} Film 
Filmbook Corp. $50.00 S55mm., per-| machine on translu-| car- 
ie, ee forated or cent screen! tridges 
non~perfor—- 
ated 
UDIMO, Hel eae Zr mela Cre $36.00 Yes Magic Reflected 
20015 0) Wig ANOhelak Sige without lantern light 
New York City lens or 
condenser 
UMINO, Ped Gz LINC. $45.00 Yes Magic Reflected |Side 
60,000 GORDE LO the st. with lantern light 
New York City lens 
Recordak |Recordak Corp. lé6mm., per-—| Reading Transmitted} Long 
Model 4 500 Madison Ave. forated on | machine light on rolls 
New York City one side ground 
glass 
screen 
Recordak |Recordak Corp. 16mm., per-—| Reading Reflected Long 
Model 6 550 Madison Ave. forated on | machine ae tao ra rolls 
New York City one side reflecting 
screen 
Recordak |Recordak Corp. 16mm. and Reading Reflected Long 
Library 350 Madison Ave.| $5.00 per 65mm. per— | machine light on Rows 
Model New York City forated reflecting 
| screen 
Filmstat |Spencer Lens Co. Tentative | S5mm. Reading Image is 
Projec— |Buffalo,. N.Y. at $50.00 machine projected 
Gor on ground 
glass 
screen 
Draeger Dr. R.H. Draeger Reading Transmitted| Long 
Projec— e/o Bibliofilm machine rolls 
tor Serv. Depart. 
of Agriculture 
Library, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 
Bibliofilm Bausch and Lomb es 55mm. Reading 
Reading Co. machine 
Machine Rochester, N. Ys 
Graflex Folmer Graflex oo | and Reading Long 
Projec— Corp. Rochester, 55mm. machine rolls 
ea Nes 


