CHAPTER XIV 


CONCLUSION 


bance: the first edition of this 
manual was issued in 1931, the whole scene 
has been changed by technological develop- 
ments. Predictions of that time have been 
realized in the actual appearance, not 
alone of new apparatus, but of enterprises 
on a large scale committed to the develop- 
ment of microphotography in scholarly docu- 
mentation. It has seemed almost impossible 
to close the book, because the rush of in- 
novation makes a chapter out of date almost 
as soon as it leaves the typist's hands. 
Even at this writing, information of future 
developments that may overturn some of the 
cost tables is in hand, though it cannot at 
this time be published. 

Nevertheless, from this study there 
emerge certain general principles that seem 
to have constant application. If these 
principles are rightly understood, they can 
easily be applied to the new techniques and 
cost situations as they arise. Foremost 
among these principles is the importance of 
breaking away from the standards that are 
deduced from the technique and costs of or- 
dinary publishing in print, and of viewing 
the whole problem of preservation and dis- 
tripwUtLon Of the records of civilization 
and the materials of scholarship in terms 
of a variety of techniques. The point of 
view must be functional, and the functions 
Omepechniccsinethis fLreld are simple; to 
convey to a certain number of readers a 
certain number of words with a certain de- 
gree ort legibility and convenience, at a 
certain cost. If publishing can be treated 
as a process in which these four variables 
appear, and to which any one of a number of 
technical devices may be applied, the re- 
sults will be nothing less than revolution- 
ary. 

How is a choice to be made among 
techniques? How is the most appropriate 
method of distributing a given text to be 
determined? When printing is assumed as 
the sole method of reproducing the material, 
the formula is very simple. There is given 
a certain number of words. The cost of 


printing that number of words is calculated 
easily. Then the actual or probable number 
of buyers must be calculated. If sales to 
these buyers at the price they are ready to 
pay will not liquidate the cost of printing 
and selling, a subsidy must be found. ler 
order to make the number of buyers as large 
as possible, certain standard promotion ex- 
penditures are made and financed into the 
production cost. The equation works out 
with great regularity in the conclusion 
that any number of words can be published 
provided 2000 buyers will purchase them in 
book form at normal prices ($1.20 per 100 
pages octavo). 

Ordinary commercial publishing will 
take care of the distribution on any ma- 
terial desired by 2000 paying customers. 
But a vast amount of material for scholar- 
ly use and a great many of the products of 
scholarship do not and should not receive 
such distribution. This is the penalty 
scholarship must pay for specialization. 
Therefore the problem of scholarly publish- 
ing and of the distribution of materials 
can be approached more realistically if an- 
other question is placed first on the list, 
another of the four variables first deter- 
mined. Let us ask then, how many copies of 
a given text ought to be distributed? and 
analyze the various techniques from the 
standpoint of size of edition. 


pize, Ofskdition? "The Eificiency =Point 
Every technique of reproduction 


that applies the principle of first cost 
and running cost has some edition size 
which it reaches an efficiency that cor- 
responds to some other edition size in the 
ease of another process. Of course, in all 
such techniques the point in edition size 
is ultimately reached when running costs 
are virtually the only costs that need to 
be considered. In the printing technique, 
for instance, editions of one or two mil- 
lion copies incur so large a running cost 
that the first cost appears only as a neg- 
digible item in the total. © in microcopyine 


at 


183 


184 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





short items to order, as in the Bibliofilm 
Service, where administrative costs are 
such that it is more economical to make a 
new negative for every order than to save 
negatives and make copies from them, the 
distinction between first cost and running 
cost disappears. The two costs are the 
same. Between these two extremes all the 
techniques of reproduction can be arranged 
in order in accordance with the size of 
edition at which they reach efficiency. 

The efficiency point is specific 
for each technique. The simplest point at 
which to. set it for each technique is at 
the size of edition at which running costs 
Seem US ce CCUa ALO rath enCO sins me elmmnenie ce Celte 
tion that is smaller than the efficiency 
edition, a preponderant element in the cost 
Ow "Calle Wisalig als ielale, GeaeSie COSwee Mia Bum Ewa 
tion that is larger than the efficiency 
edition, the preponderant cost element is 
the running cost. 

The efficiency point, thus defined, 
can be calculated for each process from the 
tables of costs in the' foregoing chapters. 
The simplest common denominator for finding 
this point is the percentage relation of 
CULM Me Cos Otel! OO Ncoplesmbon ae ei iesis 
CQSt ols anwedi clones sin photo-ofnse ts shor 
instance, theif irsh cost. of anys nye xi! 
page is estimated at $2.00 for 100 copies, 
and) runping costs: at $.50 for each. addi— 
tional oO, copies.; Lt will cost $.20ato 
LiICrease an, edition from LOO" to. 200, anda 
Willtalso cost 6.20. to, increase anvedi tion 
from 2000 to. 2100. The $.50 running cost 
ie 15% of thes$200 first cost.. Whe cor 
responding percentages for all techniques 
are tabulated below in running costs per 
hundred copies. 

Kach technique has a certain mini- 
mum edition which must be reckoned as a 
part olrsonie, tArstaicost, «inseprinting gquota— 
tions,.tor instance, an edition of 50, costs 
as much ais an edition of 100, and there=— 
HODeMEMe weds tons One OO is) auminamumes eelhie 
running costs really begin after the 100 
mark is passed. In photo-offset quota- 
tions the minimum is sometimes 50, some- 
tames LOO. sin mimeoeraph, si tvisy 50s andsin 
hectographieiiei seo, wliephovostabeand 
microphotography the minimum edition is one 
CODY nun Me COS tS. Torte OO copies, stat-— 
ed as percentages of the first cost in min— 
imum edition, stand as follows: 





TABLE XLIX 


RUNNING COSTS STATED AS PERCENTAGES 
OF FIRST COST 







































PICA GUS sores sr ee enere site des seterenehavsusrale sheleiene 
Misi @sin ie an eter emaneat« shedonsyadeasctaloketst rete 8 
Photo-offset, with composition, in 

the format of «this, book We veal. 10 





Photo-offset, without composition, 
ISS) ata Wats Sip Te diaatay WiOun Keaanem ene stevens 
Mimeograph, (normal 300-word for- 











Mat) tmMeluding compositions... 25 
Hectograph, including composition 130 
Microphotography, long runs with 

high first costs (as calculated 

for reproducing books printed 

before 1640) 

Pee neers ada ae ee OSG Samrwet et acmeite aed 730 
lions welbhanaigles KCONSO Ss Aes nid od Bc Ly DOO 





Microphotography, long runs with 
low first cost conditions (met 
in photographing NRA and AAA 
hearings) 

MUCrOCoOp yan Se niga cua SmnitC ete 
CO Site OLA CUM atoals Sm pam ain yale Mysto nT 
pervice, where cost of second 
Copy Ls identical with costior 
first copy, since negative film 
is not held for second copies 

(This is the mathematical 

limit of the percentage re- 

lation) 





10,000 


From these percentage figures on 
running costs, the points of comparable ef-— 
ficiency in edition size can be calculated 
Or Sachi process. COS Ome re pmRoducinon 
Gang bey plocedmas a curve mt Lomita commie 
size of the total' edition rises. VAG arcer= 
tain point the curve will rise to twice the 
laa elaine: Wont "lash tsnerlieeabiayes jevoysliabig, — Iral joj aia il ihe 
thiss point will bewreacheds ac, 2000Ncopics, 
in photo-offset (including composition) at 
1000, in mimeograph at 400, etc. The full 
table stands as shown on the following 
page. 

It would be possible to select some 
OLLers polntbein- editions savem horepurpeses 
of comparing the various processes. For 
instance, we might ask, "At what size of 
edition will the unit costs be so compound= 
ed that only 10% of the cost of a copy is 


CONCLUSION 185 
TABLE L 


EFFICIENCY POINT IN EDITION FOR VARIOUS PROCESSES 
UT [D/L Aad aa So LL ee 














Size of edition at which running 
Deoeone COs, Coporuls eibesic COsie, eave 
hence total cost of edition is 
double the first cost 
Pee DOME E ET Deon 0' cs ..5e ise Gara o ote a ie « a eae ede a ace eects 2, O0O0MGDI US ELOOMinetircatacost) 
MUMCGROTH 4. sis es 066s Stride erate ttctae Eee 6) GOOm plus PLoOninet irs tacos.) 
Piovo-Onusec, including composition ..... eioheieicneheletencnshs HW OOOM(pLuseLOUsinunire ecos tu) 
POOR Ones Cl Cem VANG ION UmC OM Osa tlOMpmens sls releielelelelsicisielcieis s/s 660 (plus 100 in first cost) 
Mimeograph, (300-word format) with composition ...... 400-(plus® 507in first cost) 
Pecrvograpn, With Composition «..sseccecececess Bit tha sors (Ve(plice 10min tirstecosu) 
Hectograph, without composition, as an alternative to 
SP CHOI Mere toot cee vacale hac Wale hs ade te « eeiace so ae estes 40 (piuse 10) inwtirstecost) 
Microphotography, long run, high cost of filming and 
Mo weCO SlUMOLDrOCESSINE 9. 4 cles cle se « ecsunelcueures «06 wae 14Ag(pluse 2 in first cost) 
Microphotography, long run, high cost of filming and 
PeRECOCtCROTADYOCESSING . acces csisGieoee aes 00 60% Maier. Wa(plusy) slim first ces) 
Microphotography, long run, low cost of filming (NRA 
CME OAD MENT eT a rte Sots oc Sichier ce ate reise vie es ass Reete oT plus amletiitirs wcost) 
Microphotography, short run, cost of filming and 
PROCES Sime emote SCPAPALCC Mere se aeetee vee et tel Ak 
iacurredeas a5first cost in setting up. the On the chart (Table LII, on the 
edition?" The edition sizes for the vari- following page), the curve of cost-per- 
ous processes would then stand as follows: copy has been computed for three processes, 


TABLE LI 


EDITION SIZE AT WHICH 90% OF THE UNIT COST IS RUNNING COST, 
AND 10% FIRST COST 





Process 

2stenlniauicelltal CMMetetelsaenersienenstereccnsietela) cist) ie oneben tere penchersiataralehelcirichere Siete eh er ekey enor seerete Mle O00 
Mieco: Ei@) latte we Wenoneielsacuar ener nateh= tole eletereleloteraicieher slave sieleteleisiels sokerehesevenate sralenotc deere ienote Mee rei 0.0.0 
PlnotO-oimegene, diaieilkbiclias Clowujyeysslialeia oangbgo0caGodcoodc aiaeeioderehevetevercusiel ers 10,000 
Pin@ngOn Olminc Oma Ar! @/ Ui mnC OL) OS sgtcd KO mmemetaleteneneNel alelalclielehetehelaleleletenchetsl ales atereteieners 6,600 
MENG Cee amewey ete tsiorehey savlele te) selole tenet si ete eEeRehon-i heen iene ie omer takedcsene ier ccorebsiel sie uehenenenere 4,000 
Hectograph (not technically possible) 

NG GIZ@ G O10 Valea Comme ee ieiete SGC Ost mel] Cael @ Wastin Tira ew CO)S' Gielelate! sfaieleaieie) ole) allel eielte 140 
NELCwOGO oN baler, Ialileda Sisinesis rosie elaiel imalfele acibholanbales OGG Soooco eEerelcheranetchetele 70 
itherocopying, slow) iirsteacoss and) low running (Cost (4. i.45. ate okclal eeverete . 20 





These tables indicate edition sizes | with data taken from the tables in fore- 
so far out of line with the demands of going chapters. The curves for printing, 
scholarship in all techniques, save those photo-offset and microcopying are set to 
Oremieroceopying, that the better point of different scales, but the behavior of the 
comparison is certainly the size of edition] cost curve is the same for each. In each 
divi echarunniIng COStS and Lins costs are case most of the economies in cost-—per-copy 
equal. that are obtainable are secured before the 


186 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


TABLE LIT 


EFFICIENCY POINTS FOR THREE PROCESSES 


50 copies 
{4.00 each 











100 copies 
$3.00 each 










100 copies 
$2.00 each 


200 copies 
$1.15 each 


200 copies 
$1.54 each 


500 copies 


8.76 < Efficiency Point 
-76 eac 


First Cost 


< 


2000 copies 
$.31 each 


$.42 each 


Printing Cost Curve (Inclusive of Composition) 


Microcopy Curve 


300 copies 
.84 each 


Costs of English 
Books Published 
Before 1640 










1 copy 
#20500 


Efficiency Point 


|s copies 
$5050.00 40 copies 


$3320.00 


20 gopies 
$3840.00 





2 74° 6) 8810 20 50 40 


Efficiency Point 
First Cost 2.00 
Running Cost 2.10 


400 copies 


iy 800 copies 
$.72 each 


$.51 each 


500 copies 
$.64 each 






900- 








Photo-offset Curve (not including Composition) 





$3.00 


\Runatne Cost 3.20 
1000 copies 


4000 copies 
$.27 each 





1000 2000 


efficiency point is reached. When the edi- 
tion is carried beyond the efficiency 
point, the cost-per-copy continues to fall, 
lowe; aig Cloves, jatene Geel Sie) acevouivelilyy,, Uae IPEKOr 
is of supreme importance in the strategy 
OS Olt Dias isla ame oe Serre aren tone OETA Olli 
en number of copies there is some technique 
OLPreproduchiom that well) funetiom:ataem 
nea Tus) clLpucvency spoimnb. | dtemneanc a nhat 
the most accurate comparison of processes 
can be made if each is considered as func- 
tioning at its efficiency point. If only 
ten copies of a given document are needed, 
printing and photo-offset are out of the 
question, for their costs-—per-copy are 
above photostat. If 2000 copies are need- 
ed, most of the cost advantages of micro-— 
copying disappear. 


40000 


3000 


Comparative Costs per 100,000 Words at Ef- 
ficiency Point 

If each technique is understood to 
be functioning at its efficiency point, 
there is a sound basis from which compara- 
tive costs can be computed in numbers of 
words) lt is trues that they phnotographine 
processes, when divorced from composition 
costs, apply to page or film areas, rather 
than to number of words, and that the num- 
ber of words on a given area of paper or 
film is related to a factor of legibility 
and convenience. But this variable can be 
taken into account.in the statement of com-— 
parisons. (See Table LIII on the follow 
ing. page.) 

The highest production cost at the 
efficiency point is that of the hectograph 





CONCLUSION 


Loe 





TABLE 


ese 


COSTS PER THOUSAND WORDS AT EFFICIENCY POINT 


Efficiency 


Process ; 
Edition 


Printing 


Mimeoform 


Cost per Copy of 
100,000 Words, Not 
Including Binding 


(See table on economy 
format in Chapter III) 














Photo-offset, without compo- 
sition as reprint from 
economy format slightly re 
duced to fit photo-offset 
plate 


Photo-offset, with type- 
script composition, in the 
i OuoMmelig @ie Gelaal{sy |exeyeyls< 





Mimeograph, in 300-word for- 
mat 


Hectograph, including compo- 
sition 


Hectograph, without composi- 
tion, when it is conceived 
as an alternative to the 
preparation of a fair-copy 
typescript, as in the doc- 
toral dissertation pub- 
lished by Stanton L. Davis 


Mucrocopy,wotgheiirsit. Cost 
and low running cost 





(This is a 63" x 93" page 
reduced to 6 x 9. The 
cost will vary with the 
degree of photographic re- 
duction or enlargement) 


(This is an-84" x 11" 
page. Note that the cost 
is a variable dependent 
on format and degree of 
reduction or enlargement 
from typescript) 


Sho Gebinike 
400 words 


(Figures from 
Catalogue, at 
per page) 





Miecrocopy, high first cost 
and high running cost 


NRA and AAA type, with type- 
script pages figured at 
300 words 2 





(including composition), roughly $1.50 for 
100,000 words in an edition just short of 
LOOM EAMOLHerECOS GCOMparLSOn Om processes 
is that determining the edition size at 
which other techniques will multiply words 
at the same cost-per-copy ($1.50 for 
100,000 words). The figure is a reasonable 
one to accept as a standard, because it is 
a manufacturing cost that will permit the 


ee ee 
mae et 
oe 

14 08 

8 62 

ma i 


(Figures from Short Title 
Catalogue, at 400 words 


per page) 





(at 300 words per page) 


distribution of books at prices that would 
be regarded by the book-buying world as 
moderate. (See Table LIV on the following 
page.) 

The comparisons have been made with 
tHRewCOS tS sOls printings as a base Jaine. sult 
scholars often encounter another situation; 
they are familiar with another cost level. 
They will often wish to have a unique copy 


188 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





TABLE LIV 


EDITION SIZE AT WHICH COST OF PRODUCTION IS APPROXIMATELY 
$1.50 PER 100,000 WORDS 






Process 
































Pranpine. \ Sconomy tf Orme tlt metals cet ant a cette oe tre een 550 
Mellin © OPO Tsay «tau henals caus' ensnaiav enone he susie ousus is lere abeeadeietrenene efehene eee tions 200 
Photo-offset, without composition, (reprint of pages, 
BUCCWORd SGM MSM Vee ie ah ater craig nee ret eae cre tenn ae meee 150 
Photo-offset, with typescript composition, (format of 
LADS CH OCIE) PUN ots om Clare le muetieetete ts eke ere Riavere prance ere ane Meaepe en eter tae 200 Und 
MIME @ Cea Meuetes, ohicee ranera tet rete ter step cmctten deme re tens orenercastemercnenetsecners Lente sla) 
HOCCOPRADIMS crore as, ecterere te eeveheuore oeehershorersuens dheievsssnecetebeis cterehels 90 








MKC EO COM Velen Cepek Caer UT ene C laestaclads, Spee © Sab smo Wemratiana dames 


cost, at 400 words per page 






2 





Microcopying, long run, 
cost (as with NRA hearings) 





Microcopying, short run, Bibliofilm Service (Pages 
The number of 
copies makes no difference, but the number of arti- 
100,000 
on 200 pages would be copied for $200, if all in 
ten=page Lots? for $1.05, 1f all intonesior. 
average length of item to be copied at $1.50 per 


figured at 500 words to the page). 


cles and their average length is crucial. 


100,000 words would be twenty 


SO Way tl TaS tam COS ius mele ©) Wimmera ual lara 






1 (megative at 90¢, price 
does not rise to $1.50) 


The 


1 copy each of ten articles 
of twenty pages each 





NENESCOCOT NT 5 Slalenew, iiblal. 


unique copy for $3.00 





of a document made and will face the alter- 
native of having it photostated or copied 
on a typewriter. 

The material which is normally thus 
photostated or copied in typescript is of 
two kinds: printed books, or stacks of 
loose typescript or manuscript pages. ia 
order to compare the various techniques ap- 
plicable to this demand situation, the same 
unit. of 100,000 words *can be used as' an ex- 
ample. This would mean 250 pages of an or- 
dinary book (400 words per page), or 144 
pages of a book with 700 words to the page, 
or 664 pages of typescript at 300 words to 
the page. 


(Monesienyees alte, IES) joiosisaciolke lagi 


The services at Yale, Library 
of Congress, NewYork Public hibrary.seuCe.. au 
$3.00 per hundred double frames, or 200 pages. At 
this rate the 100,000 words would be available as 





1 copy, or 200 pages. 100,000 
words as unique copy for 
$3.00 








scholar might wish to make more than one 
copy by the devices that are primarily ap- 
plied Co the production of avsingletcopy, 
The zone of edition size above the unique © 
copy and up to the edition of fifty is very 
little developed in ordinary practice, al- 
though there are a number of reasons for 
regarding it as a very important zone. An 
edition of fifty copies will make any docu- 
ment accessible in all of the greatest li- 
braries of the country, and in every sec- 
tionson the icountry., therefore sscehotanms 
should have in hand information on costs of 
production in this low-edition zone. 

With these small-edition processes 
the reproduction of the book orety pescexipt 


CONCLUSION 


189 





of 100,000 words begins always with one of 
the two basic procedures: a recopying on 
the typewriter, or a photographing, of the 
text as it stands. The first, being a com- 
position cost, is the same for any unit of 
100,000 words, whether it stands original- 
ly as a printed book or as a stack of type- 
written pages. The second, being an area 
cost, is dependent upon the total area of 
page (the size of the page multiplied by 
the number of pages), and upon the degree 
of enlargement or reduction given to the 
material in photographing it. 

The two techniques—-copying on type- 
writer and photographing the existing pages 
--furnish alternative starting points. But 
there are a number of combinations in which 
the typescript copying is followed by some 
use of a photographic technique. The pho- 
tographic techniques, since they permit re- 
ductions in size, lead to problems of legi- 
bility, and at a certain point begin to de 
mand auxiliary reading devices, such as 
reading glasses, binocular microscopes, or 
projection reading machines. 

The simplest classification of 
these processes is one that divides them 
into two main groups: first, those begin- 
ning with the making of a typescript copy 
of the text; and second, those beginning 
with the making of a photographic copy 
the text. Ihe second, or photographic, 
techniques will exhibit different costs, 
following the number of words per page and 
page area. A minimum for an octavo book is 
perhaps 400 words, a maximum 900 words. The 
table on the following page is calculated 
on the basis of a 400-word page, 6" x 9", 
and hence 250 pages of print as against 334 
pages of typescript. The larger the number 
of words per page in the book, the greater 
will be the advantage of the photographic 
processes over those that begin with a re- 
typing. The processes will yield two class- 
es of result: those legible without opti- 
eal aid, and those requiring the aid of a 
lens or projector reader. 


of 


The Allocation of Costs of Reproducing Ma- 
terials 


From the welter of figures 
timates set forth in the preceding 
ters, and epitomized in the tables above, 
the conclusion follows inescapably that 
printing is no longer to be regarded as the 
sole technique by which the materials and 


and es- 
chap- 





products of research are to be reproduced. 

It follows also that the financing 
of the reproduction and distribution of re- 
search materials may now be accomplished in 
ways that depart from the standards and 
practices of normal commercial publishing. 
The essential elements of commercial pub- 
lishing finance are derived from printing 
technique. There has always been a high 
first cost, a low running cost, and conse- 
quently a profit in the large edition. 
There must, therefore, be promotional ex- 
penses to extend the market and draw in the 
largest possible number of purchasers. Com- 
mercial publishing will be most profitable 
if it can distribute the largest number of 
copies of the smallest number of titles. 
The needs of research pull in the opposite 
direction, toward the distribution of the 
largest numbér of titles in the smallest 
editions. 

Microcopying techniques bring into 
the picture an entirely new pattern of fi- 
nancing. They impose upon the consumer the 
kind of "first cost" that printing imposes 
on the producer. Since the consumer, 
whether a library or an individual, must 
have a reading machine, he must make a sub- 
stantial investment before he can read any 
microcopies. But after his investment is 
made, he pays only a small price for his 
reading matter. The more reading matter he 
procures, the more completely his first 
cost is absorbed. 

Moreover, the microcopying tech- 
niques reach their efficiency point in so 
small a number of copies that promotional 
expenses are cut to a low minimum. it takes 
very little promotion to reach the necessa- 
ry number of purchasers. And after the ef- 
ficiency point is reached, later purchasers 
can be cared for by running off for each 
one the copy that he requires, without in- 
curring the costs of a new edition. The 
problems known to commercial publishing as 
promotion, overprint, and risk are substan- 
tially modified or absent when the micro- 
copying technique is used. 

The use of the techniques that are 
operative in the range below a hundred cop- 
ies permits a similar change in the finan- 
cial perspective. Here also the high pro- 
motion charge can be avoided, because the 
effective market is pretty well known in ad- 
vance. Moreover, some of these techniques, 
notably the hectograph, operate at so low a 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


190 





























Cee Oe Sree NOS Shen 0s: Ta 0 °T OST uni ja0ys 'szeyemetp 6 'Adooos0 TH 
Piao b29 9M rol Cie tLe Ive. 6| i okt es | aoe eS es azTs Tiny *yaszzo-0j0Ud 
ood Gl NS6 SO ONE SS50TN SN aes ae ee aatzeseu seded woss jutad eutT ent 
Yyood oaej{o0 a8ed-oGgg worsy 'AuderBoj,0ud UITM UTBeq YoOTyM SOsse9o0dg "IIT 

@et_ [set [eet [wet Bieta eae tear ae ma gious 'aieqaueyp @ "SupAdoooroTn 
OP* ete 09° YepI0O ey 
'umi 3UOT jo Jaed *'sasqjametTp oT SB8uTAdooo1o TR 

OT*OS | OT'OS | £doo 4ST Se aAT}eSOU UJTM "OZTS TINJ eq4so0j0Ug 
pre's | 89°9 | IaJeueTp IBsUTT UT ¥OL 09 peonper Yaszyjo-oj0Ud 
g9°9 | 92°ST | eZTS Tiny *yeszyo-o0j0ug 
Oe at te | aqtuM UO eNnTq) JuTad euTT entg 

Tg 2ome |e 14"5 TS*9 TS°9 TS$°9 entq UO a4TyM) JUTadentg 

| s8°oT | se*oT | se°oT | G8' OT gg' OT (9474UM UO ped Yrep IO HOeTG) PTTezZO IO M-g 


qdyaoseds44 jo sazed peg wory *3uyTjuTadentq 10 AydeaZojoyud YITM UTZeq YOTYUM sess900dg "ITI 























lees 8d°9 d-004 TePONM JEesTyo-o4,oyg-ydtTazosadfy 
get | 982 ior dB TH CORR Od spsOM COG fuTeABOOUTN 
49°T 66°S Ghee Se ee Zutds4 yytm "aaed sad spaom 00g 'ydeasoouTH 
vot Sects G+ Tie ae en Butdsq ujtTM faded zed spiom 00g 'udea80j00q 








mete esas 9T°ST# 00°0r$ suoqieod pue 4Jdtazosedsy, 


uoftITPY JO aztg Aq Adog zed 4809 sseoodg 


a 


(qeyyO Yous of JUaTeATNbe ate 4xeq 94} FO sMIOJ TBUTSTIO OMy 9Uy 
'sasseooid asayy oq) '*Adoo 4Ydytsosedé4 ysertgz e Jo BZuTHeW oy} sft e8e4s 4YsITJ ay} YOTYM UT sessad0Ig "J 


OOT OL T dO SNOILIGH NI SHSSHOOUd AO ALHIUVA V NI SQHOM COO'OCOT DNIONGOUdHY HOM SESOO LINA 


AT HIaVL 


CONCLUSION £OL 





cost level that the author himself can ab- 
sorb the cost of production and the risk of 
loss. <A substantial amount of scholarly 
publishing is carried on at present by 
means of subsidies from the author or from 
some institution representing an author in- 
terest. By shifting the technique of re- 
production to one of the cheap, small-edi- 
tion processes, the subsidy requirement can 
be diminished far below that which would be 
needed for publication in print. 

Of course if an author expects to 
receive revenue from his research writing, 
he can not get it unless his writing is of 
the type that is appropriate for commer- 
cial publishing. The technical problem in 
the reproduction of his writing appears at 
another level, where the author is inter- 
ested in the intangible rewards that are 
offered by the world of scholarship. iia) 
these cases the author sometimes makes a 
substantial investment in the reproduction 
of his work, either in the form of a_ sub- 
sidy to the press, or in the purchase of 
copies which he distributes to his col- 
leagues. Author-financed reproduction of 
materials is far less burdensome with small 
edition techniques than with commercial 
publishing techniques. 

The possibility of choosing a tech- 
nique to respond to the demand for a prod- 
uct encourages the development of another 
financing device, which would pro-rate the 
costs of production and distribution among 
purchasers. This device was examined in 
1933 by the Joint Committee, and an experi- 
ment in its use is under way in 19386. 

The essential element of the plan 
is the pro-rating of the cost of production 
among the purchasers, who are brought to- 
gether before the production is launched 
and the sales price per copy fixed. This 
involves as a corollary the appraisal of 
the value of the work prior to its publica- 
paloma. 


Publication Service of Microcopying 
Another plan, utilizing the micro- 


copying technique, is being launched in 
1936 under the auspices of Science Service, 
with the collaboration of the Bibliofilm 
Service. The announcement of this plan, 
which is essentially one of deposit for 
microcopying in lieu of publication, is 
given out by Dr. Watson Davis in the fol- 
lowing circular to the editors of scientif- 
ic publications. 





The development of photograph- 
ic techniques makes it possible for 
Science Service to extend to you an 
invitation to participate in an auxil- 
dary plan of publication which, we be- 
lieve, will be of aid to you in edit- 
ing your journal, proceedings, or 
other media of publication, and to 
scientific publication in general. 

You, in common with other 
scientific editors, are probably un- 
der pressure from authors to publish 
papers of too great length or of too 
specialized content. Or there are 
papers that you would like to print 
in extenso if finances permitted. To 
a small specialized audience, these 
papers in complete detail should be 
made available. 

The following suggested pro- 
cedure will secure effective publica- 
tion and conserve your finances. It 
is hoped that you will join with us 
Loe DUt tlre be niton eiube cits 

Publish as much or as little 
of a paper as you wish in your jour- 
nal. In the case of a very technical 
paper, this may be merely an abstract 
or summary. State at the end of the 
published item: "For detailed paper 
order Document from Science 
Service, 2101 Constitution Ave., 
Washington, D.C., remitting 
cents for microfilm form and 
cents for photocopies readable with- 
out optical aid." The author will 
have his paper typed in an acceptable 
standard form (black fresh ribbon on 
8 1/2" x 11" bond paper, single 
spaced, preferably pica type) and he 
will have photographs mounted sepa- 
rately on same sized sheets. This ma- 
terial will be deposited by you with 
Science Service as a document. Science 
Service will assign a serial document 
number and set a price per copy of the 
document in microfilm or photocopy 
form. Those who wish to have the doc-— 
ument will be able to obtain it by 
ordering it directly from Science 
Service in response to the notice pub- 
lished in your journal. 

The operation of this plan of 
auxiliary publication will be simple 
and uncomplicated. Science Service 
desires that you and other editors use 
it when, how, and if it is helpful. We 


132 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





ask no financial participation or 
guarantees on your part or the part 
of the author. We only ask that you 
signify your intention of using this 
publication method if and when it 
fits into your editorial plans, and 
that you give the paper to be de- 
posited such editorial supervision 
as you deem necessary. 


The agreement to be entered into by 
the editors of scientific publications 
using the service is drafted as follows: 


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT FOR UTILIZATION 
OF THE PUBLICATION SERVICE OF THE DOC- 
UMENTATION DIVISION OF SCIENCE SERVICE 


THIS AGREEMENT made and entered 
AG OMe 11k Geen eee ee eee RINT Cc Vienots 
eee One thousand sine smiundredeand 
thirty-six by and between the 

hereinafter called the Cooperator, 
and Science Service, a non-profit Delaware 
corporation with offices at Washington, 
D.C., hereinafter called Science Service. 

WHEREAS, the Cooperator is desirous 
of obtaining the publication of scientific 
papers and monographs that can not now se- 
cure prompt and complete issuance, and 

WHEREAS, Science Service has de- 
veloped and operates means of publication 
of scientific papers and monographs by 
photographic processes, and 

WHEREAS, it is the intention of the 
parties hereto that such cooperative work 
shall be for their mutual benefit and for 
the benefit of the scientific world in gen- 
eral. 

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consid- 
eration of the promises hereinafter set 
forth, the parties hereto, do hereby mutu- 
ally agree with each ovher as follows: 

The Cooperator shall: 

1. Obtain from authors acceptably 
prepared typescripts and illustrations of 
such material to which it is desired to 
give publication by means of the Publica- 
tion Service of Science Service, performing 
such editorial services as in the Coopera- 
tor's opinion should be performed. 

2. Deposit with Science Service 
such material as documents, with the under- 
standing that all rights of the author and 
the Cooperator are thereby transferred to 
Science Service. 





3. Publish a summary, abstract or 
short paper of each document so deposited, 
stating that the complete document may be 
obtained upon order from Science Service, 
and specifying the document number, the 
price of the document in microfilm forn, 
and the price of the document in photoprint 
form, the size of the document, the name 
and address of Science Service, in form 
prescribed by Science Service. 

4. Publish in each issue of journal 
or other publication containing such docu- 
ment notice as specified in paragraph three 
above, a statement of approximately one 
hundred words descriptive of the documenta- 
tion activities of Science Service, such 
statement to be supplied the Cooperator by 
Science Service. 

5. Allow the photocopying by Sci- 
ence Service's Bibliofilm Service of jour- 
nals or other material published by the 
Cooperator, whether material is copyrighted 
or not, provided a period of one year has 
elapsed between date of publication and 
date of photocopying. 

Science Service shall: 

1. Receive documents approved by 
the Cooperator. 

2. Assign to such documents serial 
document numbers and set prices for which 
copies of such documents will be furnished 
on order in form of microfilms (photograph- 
ic images approximately 6" x 8" on paper). 

35. Make photographic negatives of 
documents received and file them so that 
microfilms and photoprints can be repro- 
duced from them when orders are received. 

4. Arrange for the keeping of the 
originals of the documents in a permanent 
depository. 

5. Furnish photographic copies of 
documents when and as ordered by individ- 
uals or institutions, at the price agreed 
to as provided in paragraph two above. 

It is mutually understood and 
agreed: 

That this cooperative agreement 
shall not limit in any manner the coopera- 
tion of either party with any other agency 
or person in any way. 

That the provisions of this agree- 
ment relating to the furnishing by Science 
Service of documents in form of photoprints 
shall not be effective until approximately 
March 1, 1946, or later, when the judgment 
of Science Service deems that this service 
can be furnished expeditiously and at rea- 
sonable cost. 


CONCLUSION 


That this cooperative agreement 
shall take effect upon the day, month and 
year first above written and extend to and 
including March 31, 1937, subject to re- 
newal thereafter by mutual agreement of the 
parties. 

IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties 
hereto have executed this agreement on the 
day, month and year first above written. 


SCIENCE SERVICE, INC. 
By By 
Director 

Title 


Publication Service by a Deferred Payment 
Palen 


Edwards Brothers of Ann Arbor have 
a standing offer intended to facilitate 
small-edition publishing by a simplifying 
of the distribution of risk between pub- 
lisher and author or subsidizer. The terms 
of this proposal are the following: 


1. They assume 50% of the initial cost. 

2. The author, institution, or foundation 
assumes the other half, either in cash 
or in the form of advance orders on 
the book. 

5. The advance is made for six months from 
date of publication, with a carrying 
charge of 10% based on the cost of the 
edition. 

4. Repayment of the advance is made through 
first sales. Their experience has been 
that the author is seldom called upon 
to repay in cash--sales usually taking 
care of his indebtedness to them. 

5. At the end of six months, any unpaid 
balance is to be paid; if this is not 
feasible, arrangements can be made for 
an extension. 

6. If the book sells better than estimated, 
the author within three months can as- 
sume the entire cost, in which case 
their 10% carrying charge is eliminat- 
ed. 

7. All net sales, after the advance is re- 
paid, are credited to the author 
towards royalty, payable April 
September 15 each year. 

SC VES TOne, Ship. mond Dinca Lia books 
published under this arrangement, thus 
sparing the author or institution all 
mechanical sales routine. 


and 





193 


In addition to these services, 

Edwards Brothers offers a publishing serv- 

ice described as follows: 

1. They prepare and mail to a list of logi- 

cal readers a circular describing the 

book and reproducing specimen pages from 
it so that the prospective purchaser may 
see the format. 

2. This list may be furnished by the author 
or made up from the proper directories, 
membership lists, faculties, etc. 

Sen eyarlciclas DOOKS me CConddme miLOm uiatlkor 

author, format, date of publication, 

price, and publisher, in the appropriate 
indexes and in Publishers! Weekly, the 
book-trade journal. 

They send out review copies of books to 

the important periodicals in the field 

concerned. Their list of 1400 periodi- 
cals classified by subject enables them 
to select for publicity purposes those 
magazines and journals which concern 
themselves particularly with the materi- 
al treated. 

5. For this service their charge is $25 for 
250 names circularized, and $20 for each 
addi tlonal 250) Iheres is no ;harze tor 
publicity beyond this. 


The production technique used in 
this case is photo-offset from typescript. 
The offer is really a breakdown of publish- 
ing service into separate elements of 
which the author can purchase as many or as 
few as he chooses, and a credit scheme that 
will give the author a chance to get 50% of 
the production price from book purchasers. 

According to a letter just recent- 
ly received, Edwards Brothers report that 
their plan is working quite successfully. 
They have had.a number of books, ranging 
in an edition of from 300 to 900, which are 
selling and which are paying their own way. 
Their experience has been that they can, 
with an edition of 300 or 400 copies, pro- 
duce a book which will sell at approximate- 
ly current book prices of comparable materi- 
al. In addition, they are finding that 
theresis Withee anys objection. tom thes nom 
mat in which these books are prepared. Re- 
viewers no longer comment on the format, 
and if they do, their comments are almost 
always favorable. An indication that there 
is no objection is the fact that the number 
of orders which they receive each day is 


194 


constantly increasing. At the present time 
it averages from thirty to fifty orders per 
day. 

This up-to-date information coming 
directly from the publishers using the plan 
is very encouraging, in that it indicates 
the favorable reception accorded the plan, 
and also the fact that these smaller edi- 
tions will sell and pay for themselves. 


the Services sot the Hd. Wo wilson Company 

The H. W. Wilson Company has had 
extensive experience in a special method of 
pro-rating costs of production among pur- 
chasers. The series of guides to periodi- 
cal literature published by this company 
are priced on the basis of the number of 
analyzed periodicals to which the purchaser 
subscribes. 

Another service of the Wilson Com- 
Dany VT SeatSevienticaia t Mickservice, a wale 
circulates among libraries a classified 
subject list of pamphlets and similar ma- 
terial that may be available either gratis 
or at cost of supply. It will be easy to 
arrange with the Wilson Company to receive 
titles of near-print memoranda issued by 
scholars on scholarly subjects, to circu- 
late the notices of the material in the 
elassified list, and to arrange for distri— 
bution to the libraries upon demand. 





Plans for the Photo-Offset Reproduction of 
Rare Items 

The proficiency with which the 
photo-offset technique will bring rare books 
into print has led to a number of systemat-— 
ic experiments in organizing reproduction 
of them. 

The Facsimile Text Society was or- 
ganized with a list of subscribing members 
and an editorial board to choose titles for 
reproduction. It could not escape the need 
for a large-edition sale, nor could it pro- 
rate actual costs among actual subscribers 
Ome ANViCMe tall bike.) iim eSitoOrib sm witilhem ttc 
not use printing techniques, and tried in 
its promotion to find a plan halfway be- 
tween that of a journal with a subscriber 
list and that of a book publisher, it did 
not escape the accountancy and risks of 
book publishing. 

Mr. John A. Neu of the Library of 
Congress has been a promotor of a large- 
scale plan for rearranging and rationaliz- 
ing book holdings of American libraries. 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





One part of his plan called for the multi- 
plying of rare books. The idea that the 
production of the reprints should be 
planned to fit into a comprehensive arrange- 
ment of book resources in the country was 
new. The scheme did not get beyond the 
memorandum stage. 

The H. W. Wilson Company has de- 
veloped an effective book exchange service 
that should prove very sensitive in regis- 
tering reprint demand. The company pub- 
lished a catalogue of essays and general 
literature as a kind of checklist for li- 
braries. Since many of the items on this 
list were out of print, it issued a special 
list of the out-of-print books, and invited 
libraries and secondhand dealers to report 
copies for sale. Six titles were so much 
im denand,, and so Jittleminesuppillys sulci 
the Wilson Company made reprint editions-—- 
in this case from plates rather than by 
photo-offset--but the results were not a 
striking success. It may be that the im- 
mediately effective demand for the reprint 
of a particular rare and out-of-print book 
does not often pass the efficiency point of 
the reprint process, whether by photo-off- 
set or from the plates. The problem, again, 
is one of financing the smallest possible 
edition. 


Concentration of Scholarly Book Production 

In the past few years there have 
been a number of proposals that look to the 
achievement of economies of consolidation 
in scholarly book publishing. It will be 
proposed, for instance, that university 
presses should merge to avoid wasteful du- 
plication, or that a gigantic) union pub— 
lishing institution should be set up to 
compete with existing prices for profitable 
manuscripts, and expend its profits in the 
production of small-edition, loss-sustain- 
ing research books. The evidence accumu- 
lated in the preceding pages amply warrants 
the conclusion that the mere increasing of 
the size of present publishing operations 
will not meet present needs. What is nec- 
essary is a new design, and the use of new 
techniques, to the end that editions will 
finance themselves regardless of the number 
of buyers--whether it be ten or ten thou- 
sand. 


ae 


eee 


CONCLUSION 


195 





Concentration of Processing Services for 
Microcopying 

The development of microcopying on 
paper and film promises to yield low prices 
that will result in widespread use, and the 
widespread use will then reflect back in 
low prices. The critical problem of the 
moment is the maintenance of a low price 
level during the period of development that 
is bringing about the widespread use. 

The institution which is probably 
most necessary for the achievement of this 
objective is a photographic processing cen- 
ter which can offer the following services: 


1. Accept microcopy negatives, either 16mm, 
or 55 mm., both in short and long runs, 
and service them to buyers by making on 
order positive prints in the same size, 
or in enlargement or reduction, and pos- 
sibly on paper. 

2, Pro-rate the costs of making a negative 
among purchasers of the positive on a 
non-profit basis. 

%. Guarantee the highest technical stand- 
ards in the care of the negative and the 
processing of the positive. 


While it is highly desirable to en- 
courage the development of a number of al- 
ternative photographing and reading ma- 
chines, there is no advantage in splitting 
up the work of processing among a number of 
agencies. Efficient machinery is very ex- 
pensive and calls for large footages. The 
scholar who returns from Europe with a few 
thousand feet of microcopies of unpublished 
material, the library that has made a nega- 
tive of its newspaper file, the group of 
libraries which may be organizing an under- 
taking such as the copying of English books 
published before 1640, could all make use 
of a processing center. The accountancy 
standards remain to be worked out; they 
will show marked differences from the ac- 
countancy of publishing. They should be 
established on the assumption of large foot- 
ages. 

Five years ago, when the first edi- 
tion of this report was issued, it seemed 
that the most important need in the field 
of microcopying was mechanical--the effi- 
cient camera and reading machine. At this 
date of writing, the mechanical problems 
are so well on the road to solution that 
they need not cause concern. The next prob- 





lem is one of institutional development and 
of the standardizing of a low price level. 


Allocation of Costs, and the Problem of Ap- 


praisal and Listing 


The problem of allocation of cost 
is intimately related to the problem of ap- 
praising the research value of material 
that is to be multiplied by any technique 
for any number of users. 

The cost may be assessed against 
the author (or some institution interested, 
like the author, in promoting distribution), 
or against the library and the individual 
consumer, or it may be distributed among 
them. It may be met by any one of the 
three interests identified in the first 
chapter of this book as the producer, con- 
sumer, and custodian interest, or by all of 
them in different proportions. But the al- 
location of cost cannot be made except in 
the presence of some kind of appraisal. 

If the author bears the whole cost 
of multiplying the book and distributes AG 
free of charge to libraries, no act of ap- 
praisal of the book is necessary except 
that which the receivers of the book will 
perform in deciding whether to shelve the 
giftvor put it in the wastebasket. 

If the people who are to acquire 
the book are to be asked to contribute 
toward the cost of multiplying it, the 
work of appraising must precede their de- 
cision to assume part of the cost of multi- 
plying. 

At present this appraising is done 
in two ways. The most common is that used 
in the publishing trade. An editor ap- 
praises a manuscript and makes a decision 
to publish; then reviewers step in, and on 
the basis of their reviews purchasers make 
their decisions. 

Sometimes the editors assume so 
much responsibility, as in bringing out a 
series, that the purchasers do not await 
the second appraisal made by reviewers. 
This is the second of the two systems now 
se Sere 

These methods do not place a large 
proportion of the cost on the purchasers of 
books; the author of a Ph.D. dissertation 
bears) most of the cost. 

Both of these methods of appraising 
books and distributing their cost between 
authors and buyers leave a large margin of 
risk. While they have been developed in 


196 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





connection with the technique of printing, 
they are not necessarily tied to that tech- 
nique. 

A third arrangement would be possi- 
ble. The appraising of the book could be 
made, not only prior to the multiplying of 
it, but prior even to the distribution of 
its cost between author and purchasers. 
This is the system proposed in a memoran- 
dum of the Joint Committee on a publishing 
service. 

There are two functions in connec-— 
tion with the distribution of the results 
of research which are more intellectual 
than mechanical. The first is the enter- 
ing of information regarding the research 
product in bibliographical guides; the sec-— 
ond is the appraising of the merit of the 
research product. This work is done by 
professional scholars, who may or may not 
be remunerated for it. 

The two functions are related. A 
bibliographical entry implies a degree of 
appraisal; at least the research product 
must be assumed to relate to the topic un- 
der which it is entered. This amount of 
appraising can be left to the author or, 
in the case of Ph.D. theses, to those under 
whom the work was done. 

The more complete appraising that 
is necessary before asking purchasers to 
contribute toward the cost of multiplying 
a book is not so properly left to the 
author or his advisor. 

No matter what techniques of re- 
production are used in multiplying a text, 
these problems of appraisal and assessment 
OuNCOst arise. 

The rational use of these avail- 
able techniques requires, however, that the 
intellectual elements of the distributing 
process, namely, bibliographical entry and 
appraisal, should be made available re- 
gardless of the technique of multiplying. 


Intellectual Implications of Technological 


Change 
A change in the procedure of ap- 


praisal of material and a development of 
bibliographical services to include materi- 
al not commercially published open the way 
to far-reaching changes in the intellec- 
tual standards of scholarship. At the same 
time the prospect that a scholar may be 
able to have material that was otherwise 
inaccessible brought to him, and that he 





may be able to communicate to his colleagues 
writings that he has hitherto been unable 
to communicate to them, open the way to new 
intellectual opportunities. An analysis of 
these new standards and opportunities points 
toward a large-scale redivision of scholar- 
ly labor, which may take a course parallel 
to that which industrial technology intro- 
duced when it opened to the semi-skilled a 
great field previously occupied by the 
highly skilled. 

The semi-skilled in scholarship 
have played a very small role in intellec- 
tual life for the past few generations; the 
amateur has given way to the professional 
in research, and the vast corps of teachers 
in the secondary schools have not been mus- 
tered into the army of productive scholar- 
ship. The concentration of scholarly work 
has taken place not only in respect of per- 
sonnel, but also in respect of location. 
Large library resources have become so nec-— 
essary that most of the work has been drawn 
to great cities and university centers. We 
look out now upon a prospect of change, 
which can be examined in several aspects. 
First among these aspects is the prospec- 
tive disintegration of the distinction be- 
tween collecting and publishing. 

Microcopying and the reproduction 
techniques that are operative in the zone 
of ten copies tend to obliterate this dis- 
tinction, because they mean that any col- 
lection of material--whether in manuscript, 
typescript, or book or pamphlet form--can 
be duplicated or multiplied in whole or in 
part upon demand. If a library has col- 
lected the theatre programs, political 
broadsides, or other documents originating 
in its community, this material has not 
only been preserved from destruction, but 
also prepared for distribution. Moreover, 
a collection of material can be made logi- 
cally complete, regardless of the accident 
of the market, and become in that way an 
organized unit, as if it were a vast and 
well-designed book. Collections of docu- 
ments in the hands of any librarians or in- 
dividuals who are willing to permit their 
copying become part of a great reservoir of 
documentation, open to all comers, irrespec-— 
tive of whether or not any item is a "book 
eT arate! 

This conception--that collecting 
and publishing are functionally merged-- 
should operate to expand and dignify the 


CONCLUSION 


role of the collector, and at the same time 
to clarify the position of the research 
worker. It should become increasingly dif- 
ficult for scholars to publish undigested 
material in the expectation that their work 
will be credited as if it were a true prod- 
uct of research, provided only that the 
texts as published had not previously ap- 
peared in print. Already the effect of the 
new techniques can be felt. A number of 
scholars have gone into European archives 
and brought home collections of documents 
numbering into the thousands in microcopy 
form. If they had gone with pen and ink 
or with typewriter, and laboriously copied 
out a few hundred documents they might have 
been tempted to confuse the result of their 
physical labor with an intellectual prod- 
uct. Since it is now evident that the cam- 
era can not only copy documents by the thou- 
sands, but also permit their duplication to 
order and upon demand, the difference be- 
tween the mere collection of documents and 
their research use stands out with a clar- 
ity it could not previously have possessed. 

This observation does not decry the 
value to culture of that work which tends 
to improve and expand records, to make them 
more accessible, and to notify those who 
should be interested in them of their exist- 
ence. This is an essential service which 
must be rendered. But there should arisea 
new conception of division of labor in 
scholarship, combined with a willingness to 
apportion tasks to the abilities and oppor- 
tunities of those who are available to do 
the work. 

The labor of research is doubly di- 
visible. It can be divided vertically into 
ever narrower fields, and it can be divid- 
ed horizontally into different stages in 
the preparation of material. At the first 
level stands the collection of records-—-the 
function generally left with librarians and 
archivists. Between the collection of texts 
and the distribution of conclusions drawn 
from their study, there stands a long in- 
termediate series of operations, to each of 
which there corresponds some appropriate 
intellectual technique in the treatment of 
the material, and some appropriate mechani- 
eal technique for its reproduction. 

Many of the obstacles to be over- 
come in the development of the full materi- 
al resources of intellectual life are found 


in the attitudes of the scholars themselves. 








197 
Too often there is a veneration of book 
print at the expense of typescript, and 
too frequently a disposition to take for 
granted the finality of the existing dis- 
tribution of labor. But an examination of 
the whole problem of materials for research 
discloses the fact that the problem can not 
be solved in terms of book publishing on 
the one hand, and the labor of professional 
scholars alone on the other. 

The nature of the whole problem of 
materials for research will be clarified 
if it is examined as a series of operations 
that begins with the collecting of original 
material and ends with the dissemination of 
the results of research. 


The First Stage: Collecting and Preserving 
Material 


We are called upon to manipulate a 
civilization based primarily upon the use 
of two substances--metal and paper. Just 
as our economic life has come to be based 
upon the use of metals, so our intellectual 
life has its material foundations in the 
use of paper. 

The world of paper is a world of 
vast dimensions. Primarily, it is not a 
world of books. A single copy of the New 
York Times contains more words than a full- 
length novel. Books constitute only a 
small part of the printed reading matter 
that is laid before our eyes. Most of the 
printed material that is distributed is dis-— 
tributed in newspaper form. But the news- 
papers absorb only a fraction of the actual 
writing that is done. In every business 
office there are typewriters that clatter 
all day putting words and numbers on paper. 
That which is printed is only a fraction of 
that which is written and communicated. For 
every ton of paper that is converted into 
records, there are, perhaps, only a few 
pounds that will ever be added to the perma- 
nent heritage of records to be utilized in 
the study of our civilization, and preserved 
for the future. 

How is the selection to be made of 
records that are to be preserved? How are 
they to be segregated from the records 
destined for destruction? And how is the 
scholar to be guided among those that are 
preserved, to the end that their preserva-— 
tion will prove to be worth while? Our 
libraries operate efficiently in respect of 
certain classes of books and periodicals, 


198 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





and even of newspapers and some kinds of 
old manuscripts. But there are vast do- 
mains of records which our libraries can- 
not be expected to govern. The records of 
business and of government and the private 
papers of families must, in the long run, 
be cared for by business and government and 
the family. Only by inculcating in people 
who are not professional scholars a sense 
of the value of records, and by teaching a 
technique applicable to their selective 
destruction and preservation, can this 
great bulk of record material be given a 
rational treatment. A program that would 
attempt to solve the problems of preserv- 
ing and improving materials for research, 
without any resources but those of profes- 
sional scholars and research libraries, 
will leave the great decisions to the play 
of accident. 

Even the ample and intelligent se- 
lection and preservation of records that 
are made in the course of practical life 
would still leave a great gap in the docu- 
mentation. Are there not many kinds of in- 
formation that are of intrinsic interest 
and value to research scholarship, even 
though they do not take the form of records 
unless a deliberate effort is made to re- 
cord ethen? seins ise trues not only, ina. the 
EiCldNO fel ane ust CS bu teal SO na poll ure au 
and business history, and in family history 
as well. The development of radio, which 
does not automatically make a paper record, 
imposes a special duty of recording for 
permanence, if the archive of culture is to 
be complete. 

The field of original record is so 
vast that the conclusion must be self-evi- 
dent; only the recruiting of forces supple- 
mentary to those of professional scholars 
and research libraries will bring ample and 
intelligent action in the preserving of old 
records, in the selection of contemporary 
records for preservation, and in the making 
of new records. 

The human interests that may be 
turned to account to improve our resources 
of record are many. Chief among them are 
the genealogical interest, the interest of 
people engaged in business in the back- 
ground and prospects of their business, the 
collector's interest in a good collection 
of anything from postage stamps to incunab- 
ula, and perhaps a feeling for the pres- 
tige-value of contributions made to the in- 
tellectual world. 





We are not yet intellectually pre- 
pared to develop these human resources. We 
do not yet know exactly how to instruct the 
college student of today, the business man 
of tomorrow, in the techniques and values 
that he ought to know if he is to partici- 
pate in a great common enterprise in the de- 
velopment of record resources. We have not 
yet worked out fully the institutional ar- 
rangements by which collections of records, 
preserved from the past or made in the pres- 
ent, can be appraised, reported, and brought 
to the attention of those who can use then. 
We have not yet analyzed thoroughly the 
categories into which research materials 
fall, nor devised for each category appro- 
priate principles to govern their preserva- 
tion, selection, creation. sors lis tancmmenory 
use. This intellectual problem would exist 
for us, even if we were still dependent 
upon book publishing for all multiplying of 
research materials. But the new techniques, 
since they render collecting almost equiva- 
lent to publishing, make the problem far 
more pressing, and the opportunity far 
greater, than it has been in the past. 


The Second Stage: the Improvement of Dif- 
ferent Types of Material 

The creation, preservation, and 
collection of research material in vast 
quantities will embarrass rather than aid 
scholarship, unless appropriate measures 
are taken to improve it by arranging it 
properly, and controlling it by means of 
lists, inventories, calendars, and other 
ways. 

The classes of record that account 
for the greatest bulk of paper tonnage are 
the following: 


(a) Books, Periodicals, and Printed Pub- 

lic Documents 

Present library techniques are ade- 
quate to care for this material, although 
library resources are in some cases insuf- 
ficient. The public documents of the Amer- 
ican states and of foreign governments are 
very inadequately represented in American 
libraries. But the method of meeting this 
deficiency will probably be found to in- 
volve no other changes than an increase in 
library resources or a distribution of li- 
brary responsibilities, to the end that the 
holdings and acquisitions of one library 
may dovetail with those of another, and the 
technique of microcopying provides 


CONCLUSION 


inter-library service. The union catalogue 
of libraries and the union lists of news- 
papers and public documents are the tools 
required for the improvement of this situ- 
ation. The Wilson Company has made a 
union list of periodicals and of public doc 
uments, and a number of union catalogue 
projects are under way, notably the great 
Project B of the Library of Congress, and 
the union list of the holdings of libraries 
in Philadelphia. 


(b) Newspapers 
The newspaper resources of the cour 


try, taken as a whole, reveal just such 
gaps as are shown in periodical and foreign 
public document holdings. A newspaper 
union list is in the making, but newspapers 
present two additional tasks. The paper 
upon which newspapers have been printed 
since the last quarter of the nineteenth 
century is so highly perishable that the 
whole newspaper record will be lost unless 
large-scale copying or preserving is done. 
Probably the best plan will be to micro- 
copy the files, but, despite the low costs 
of the process, this will be a long and ex- 
pensive process. 

The bulk of newspaper files is so 
great and the miscellaneous character of 
their contents so general, that a distinct 
step forward in the improvement of this 
type of record can be made by indexing, 
calendaring, or digesting the files. The 
Joint Committee has experimented with the 
technique of making a newspaper digest in 
Cleveland, adapting the procedure to the 
training and abilities of a high-school 
graduate relief worker, and planning to 


multiply the resulting digest by means of 
the multigraph process. Though the hecto- 
graphed digest will not be permanent, it 


will last long enough to provide many years 
of study, and a microcopy of the digest will 
be made to give absolute permanence to the 
work. 

The labor cost of indexing or di- 
gesting newspaper materials is so great 
that the work can hardly be accomplished ex- 
cept under one of two conditions--either it 
can be developed by paid labor as a part of 
a relief program, or it can be done in 
small increments by people interested in 
the variety of information that the old 
newspapers reveal, and willing to work to 
put the material into near-print form for 


199 





the sake of the intangible reward of schol- 
arly recognition. The newspaper digest is 
a halfway product, intermediate between the 
raw newspaper material and the finished re- 
sult of research. 

There is one great news source that 
is not at present preserved in any form. 
This is the typescript material that pass- 
es over the wires of the great news serv- 
ices. It is the raw material of news, near- 
er to source than the newspaper itself, and 
more independent of the whim of the city 
editor. Dr. T, R, Schellenberg has taken 
the lead in promoting the preservation of 
this type of material by the microcopy 
technique. 


(ec) Public Archives 

The erection of a National Archives 
building and the creation of a National 
Archives administration mark a new day in 
the treatment of public records in the 
United States. This country has hitherto 
been backward--almost barbarous--in the 
care of its public records. The conjunc- 
tion of the establishment of the National 
Archives and the promotion of white-collar 
relief projects under the Works Progress 
Administration is changing this picture. 
Two large-scale and systematic inventories 
have been organized throughout the country 
under the Works Progress Administration, 
the one to make an identification inventory 
of the records of local public bodies, the 
other to make an inventory of federal rec- 
ords outside of Washington. The Historical 
Records Survey, under the direction of 
Dr. Luther Evans, is also covering some of 
the manuscript records, especially those in 
historical societies, and consolidating in- 
formation regarding then, 

There are three questions relating 
to public archives which deeply concern re- 
SCanCche Scholars meer Sie sm pne molest lLormmots 
record destruction., No archive administra- 
tion can or should preserve everything, 
and yet the selection of material for pres- 
ervation, and the decision on what to de- 
stroy, are not easily made. Second is the 
question of inventory. Even if records are 
preserved, they are of little use to schol-— 
ars until they have been inventoried and 
arranged. And third is the question of ac- 
cess and administration. As local archives 
come to be better known and their research 
uses better understood, it will follow that 


200 


people who are not close to large libraries 
will have an increasing array of opportun- 
ities for research. It may be that tech- 
niques comparable to that which is being 
developed in the making of a newspaper di- 
gest can be worked out, to result 'in an 
equivalent increase in the accessibility 
and utility of local archival material. 

Though sociologists have utilized 
local data very effectively, the histori- 
ans, economists, and political seientists 
have devoted far more attention to the na- 
tional scene. A leading political scien- 
tist, who is undertaking a study of the 
rise of machine politics in American cit- 
ies, found that the basic preparatory work 
has not been done. The practical need for 
the study of regional economic opportuni- 
ties finds economics far better equipped 
with statistics on national trends than 
with scientific analyses of local situa- 
tions. Newspapers and the local archives 
are a vein of raw ore inviting the labor of 
a host of workers to dig out material and 
refine the product. 


(d) Business Records 

The archives of business are no 
less important than the archives of govern- 
ment, but they are not ordinarily adminis- 
tered with a view to their research value 
in'the future. When an office manager is 
employed to increase the working efficien- 
CYMOLmMamDUSINeESSsOLt Cen One n Ole Hi Smads G 
points of attack is the storage of old rec- 
ords. He tries to get them destroyed to 
save storage space. No business can af- 
ford to retain all records in their origi- 
nal and bulky form, The Recordak Corpora— 
tion offers to business firms an opportun- 
ity to reduce greatly the space required 
for the preservation of old files. Never- 
theless, the introduction of sound scholar- 
ly archival principles into the care of 
business records is a program for the fu- 
ture, rather than a fact of the present. 

The Joint Committee made an experi- 
watspahe, akiel alololbyetstiales fe! adalaeial 'ley Eljoyoline whale) jeneulial—= 
ciple of sampling to the preservation of 
records. Halle Brothers, a Cleveland de- 
partment store, withdrew from the normal 
course of destruction sample runs of all 
its types af records to cover a period 
prior to the introduction of NRA and a peri- 
od subsequent thereto. Most American busi- 
ness firms have already destroyed the orig- 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


inal pay rolls, materials cards, work cards, 
etc., that would document the story of this 
experiment in large-scale change of working 
standards. At the suggestion of Professor 
N. S. B. Gras, of Harvard University Gradu- 
ate School of Business Administration, 

Mr. Ralph M. Hower was employed to draw up 
a report on the records and methods of rec- 
ord preservation used by ten different com- 
panies of considerable age and importance. 
The Business Historical Society is inter- 
ested in developing a technique for the 
preservation of the important segments of 
business records. But the road forward is 
not so clear in the case of business rec— 
ords as it is with public archives, news- 
papers, and the books and periodicals 
handled by libraries through the book trade. 


(e) Ephemeral Materials and Non-Trade 
Documentation 


Though the library technique for 
dealing with books, periodicals, and news- 
papers is well established, the same can 
hardly be said of ephemeral items such as 
political posters and broadsides, pamphlets, 
advertising matter, theatre programs, and 
a great variety of near-print matter. 

Dr. Kuhlman of the University of Chicago 
Library is preparing a manual for librari- 
ans on the collection and arrangement of 
this type of material. But here also there 
is a great field for the individual collec- 
tor. During the World War a large number 
of individuals in Germany and many in 
France began their "war collections." There 
were several journals published to serve 
the collectors. With the close of the war 
this interest diminished. But there are 

an almost infinite number of subjects upon 
which the serious and comprehensive activ—- 
ity of an individual collector can bring 
valuable results. Every labor dispute in 

a modern city gives rise to its little 
budget of leaflets and announcements from 
the different labor groups and the manage- 
ment. Every demonstration of relief 
clients is accompanied by its paper shower. 
These documents are a part of the record of 
civilization that will not come to be pre- 
served and organized, except as individuals 
or local libraries take a special interest 
and apply a sound technique. 


(f) Family Papers 
The restricted space in which the 


CONCLUSION 


201 


modern family lives, and the frequent mov- search techniques in the social studies and 


ing from apartment to apartment that be- 
comes normal in urban civilization, make 
the hoarding of family papers, whether 
ancient or current, a burdensome load. Sur- 
veys of historical documentation in New 
York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and other 
places have disclosed a wealth of valuable 
records in the form of old letters. The 
complete rationalization of the care of 
family papers would call for at least three 
things: first, the reporting of holdings 
of old papers; second, the proper selec- 
tion, preservation, and care of current pa- 
pers; and third, a responsibility in each 
family to record the history of itself, or 
the biography of its members. 

The interest that many individuals 
develop in genealogy can perhaps be chan- 
neled in such a way that it will yield re- 
sults valuable to the world of scholarship. 
Dr. Jean Stephenson, Chairman of the Genea- 
logical Records Committee of the Daughters 
of the American Revolution, is sounding out 
this possibility and is prepared to de- 
velop it in a forthcoming manual on genea- 
logical research. 

Thus the collection, selection, 
listing and care of records, whether public 
archives, business documents, or family pa- 
pers, is a vast task in which a large ele- 
ment of the population can be trained to 
share. The value of everything they do will 
be increased by the greater mobility that 
all records possess by virtue of the new 
techniques of reproduction. 


Simplified Research Techniques 
Above the level of the simple col- 


lecting and organizing of material, there 
lies a zone of possible activity intermedi- 
ate between the higher research, to which 
the highly trained professional scholars 
may be expected to devote their time, and 
the more humble task of accumulating and 
arranging. The proposal has been present- 
ed to the American Council of Learned So- 
cieties and the Social Science Research 
Council that steps should be taken to de- 
vise simplified research techniques, by 
which the semi-skilled in scholarship could 
make their contributions, and those who 
have only a limited amount of time or lim- 
ited documentary equipment for research, 
may be brought to contribute their share. 
The development of simplified re- 








some of the humanities would result in an 
increase in the actual working personnel of 
American scholarship, especially by drawing 
in the following types of workers: 


a) University, college, and high-school 
teachers who, because of limitations of 
time, materials or training, are not 
able to keep the pace set by the most 
advanced research workers. 

b) College graduates, not engaged in aca- 
demic work, but having at their disposal 
time and interests--in some cases money 
--that can be devoted to scholarly pur- 
poses. 

c) Business men whose interest in their own 
business or the economic setting of 
their own community is guided toward ac- 
curate and sound methods of investiga- 
aoe 


The broadening of the base of the 
pyramid of scholarly activity would con- 
tribute to the whole field of education. 
The schism in the intellectual world that 
resulted from the preoccupation of those 
interested in pedagogy with methods of in-— 
struction, at the expense of content of 
learning, and of research workers in con- 
tent, at the expense of methods of instruc- 
tion, has not strengthened, but rather has 
weakened intellectual life. It has re- 
sulted in a situation in which the teaching 
career, especially in the secondary school, 
is made less attractive in terms of in- 
tellectual dignity than it would need to 
be. A good teacher can always teach more 
effectively if she is able to illustrate 
generalizations in history, social studies, 
or other fields from local and familiar in- 
stances. But such illustrations presuppose 
a sound investigation of the local data in 
relation to the general findings of a dis- 
cipline; and if such an investigation is 
made, its result is more than an item of 
teaching materials ei teis, in fact. an ad= 
ditional datum in the inductive structure 
of the discipline itself. 

The present generation should not 
be surprised at the conclusion that a tech- 
nologucalMRevolunvonsnasmne taabiemsecasmoits 
a cultural revolution. Such may indeed be 
true in this instance. The cultural reviv— 
al of the small town as against the monop- 
oly of the metropolis, and the democratization 


202 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





and"deprofessionalization" of scholarship 
are on the horizon which seems to lie 
ahead. And these things, themselves, ac- 
cord with other elements of our social and 
economic prospects--notably the possible 
decline in the centralization of popula- 
tion in cities and the development of a 


new leisure in the hands of a well-educat- 
ed people. The same technical innova- 
tions that promise to give aid to the re- 
search worker in his cubicle may also 
lead the whole population toward partici- 
pation in a new cultural design. 


INDEX 


A.A.A. Hearings, 151, 152, 150, 151, 152, 172 
Ansco camera, 123, 161, 168-9 

Aperture, 146-7, 148, 150 

Aquatone, 89 

Archives, 199 

Argus camera, 161, 164, 168 


Bausch and Lomb, 116, 150, 173 
Beane ye DOnaldyP eos 45 95) Ost 75 D5) CO 
Bendikson, Dr. L., 117, 118-9, 125, 124, 125, 151, 
164 
Bibliofilm Service, 134, 140, 144, 151, 184, 192 
Binding, 111-113 
spiral, 111-2 
stapling, 111 
stitching, 112-3 
Binding costs, 113 
Blueprint paper costs, 70 
Blueprinting (see also Van Dyke, Lithoprint, B-W), 
Bo ymOC sl 
Business records, 200 
B-W Process, 66, 67, 68, 77 


Carbon copying, 41, 42 

Cheney, 0. H., 3, 4, 6 

Cinescopie camera, 125, 162, 164 
Collotype (see Photogelatin) 
Contact copying, 68, 71 

Contax camera, 131, 159, 161, 164-8 
Copyright, 155-9 


Dagron film, 123, 125, 157 

Davis, Dr. Watson (see also Science Service), 141, 
150, 191 

Dermaprint, 14, 27-9, 90 

Dexigraph, 76, 158 

Direct-Typing offset, 46, 47 

Ditto (see Hectographing) 

Draeger camera, 123, 135, 151, 161, 170 


Edwards Brothers Publishing Plan, 195, 194 
E.K.A. camera, 123, 161, 164 

Electromatic typewriter (see Typewriters) 
Electrotype, 17, 19, 25, 30 

Elite type (see Type) 

Emulsion, 121, 122 

Enlargement ratio, 147 


Fair copy, 54ff. 
Film costs, 125, 126 


Film durability, 152, 153 

Film storage, 113-4, 152-5 

Filmograph camera, 161, 162, 174 

Filmstats, 117, 121, 154 

Fiske, Bradley A., 117 

Fiskoscope, 117 

Folmer Graflex Corporation, 124, 125 

Folmer Graflex Recording Camera, 119, 150, 151, 152, 
161, 170-1 

Formats, 55, 38, 49, S4ff, 59 

Format copy, 34, 37, 38 


Greene, EH. B., 53 


Half-Tones, 85-6 
Hanley, Dr. Miles L., 177ff. 
Harris Press, ¢2c, 86 
Hectograph 
area costs, 44 
composition costs, 44 
legibility, 44, 45 
permanence, 44, 46 
Hectographing, 41-6 
Hoch, Fred, 5, 18, 25, 52, 60, 62 


Interlinear spacing, 48 

International Filmbook Company, 144, 150, 151, 152, 
155, 174 

Intertype, 14, 16 


Kennedy camera, 125, 131, 169-70, 174 

Kletsch, Dr. Ernest (see also Mimeoform Process), 
19, 158 

Kuhlman, Dr. A. F., 153, 200 


Legibpilaty lisp ctypely ors 40, 41555) 04, OO smLlD, 
116, 123 

Leica camera, 125, 151, 159, 161, 164-8 

Leitz Company, 150, 154, 161, 173 

Linotype, 14, 16 

Lithoprint (see also Blueprinting), 65 

Ludwig camera, 161, 169 

Ludwig, Frederick, 169 

lydenberg, Dr. H. M. (see also Copyright), 135 


Manuscript book, 62, 63 

Margin, Justifying right-hand, 33, 55 
Marshall, Dr. John, 3, 6 

Matson camera, 161, 169 

Meiner formula, 5 


205 


204 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


Metal plates 
costs, 48 
multilith, 28 
preparation of, 23 
preservation of, 25 
rotaprint, 2&4, 28 
utilization of, 23 
Microcopying (see Chapter XI), 93 
first costs, 161 
reprint costs, 1335-4 
running costs, 131 
Mimeoform process, 19-20, 30 
Mimeograph stencils, 47ff. 
Mimeographing, 46, 48, 54 
Monotype, 14, 16, 19 
Multigraph, 14, 18, 19 
Multiliith, 21, 27, 46, 47, 48, 55, 86, 87 


N.R.A. Hearings, 131, 132, 144, 150, 151, 152, 155, 


ine 

Neu, Dr. John A., 194 

Newspapers, Reduced size, 115, 116 

New York Times, 24, 105, 113, 115, 117, 124, 130, 
Dipl onie mL 


Ormig (see Hectographing) 
Ozalid (see Blueprinting), 66 


Pantone, 89-90 
Paper (see also Chapter VIII) 
legibility, 109 
preservation (newsprint), 105, 155 
prices, 104 
Scribner-Burton specifications, 106 
specifications, 98ff. 
Paterson, Dr. Donald G., 25 
Peters, Dr. Charles C., 25, 116, 117 
Pica type (see Type) 
Photoengraving, 22, 85 
Photogelatin, 84, 87-8, 92 
Photographic negative, 22 
Photogravure, 88-9 
Photo-Offset, 15, 14, 19, 21, 25, 50, 55, 77, 85 
area costs, 2e-5, 30, 53, 55 
composition costs, e2, 50, 37 
format formula, 56ff. 
reprinting, 21, e5-6, 30 
running costs, 50, 55 
Photoscopie, 162 
Photostat paper, 67, 72, 75, 74 
Photostating, 13, 14, 66, 67, 71-5, 77 
Pratt, Verneur, 121, 128, 140-1 
Printing, 14-8, 20, 30, 182 
area costs, 13, 16-7, 30 
composition costs, 13, 15-6, 30, 37 
first costs, 135, 50 
reprint costs, 13, 30 
running costs, 13, 14, 17, 30 


Processing costs, 129-31, 153 
Projection equipment, 141ff., 151, 172-6 


Randall, Dr. William M., 9, 10 

Recordak copying camera, 123, 131, 161, 171-2 

Recordak Corporation, 75, 114, 122, 130, 131, 134, 
150, 151, 152, 154, 155, 200 

Recordak projector, 143, 144, 146, 150, 151, 174 

Rectigraph, 73, 75 

Reduction ratio, 121, 122-5, 133, 141 

Reflection copying, 71, 159 

Reprinting (see Photo-Offset) 

Resolving Power, lel, 123 

Right-Hand margin (see Margin) 

Rotaprint, el, 27, 46, 47, 48, 86, 87 


Schellenberg, Dr. T. R., 151, 152, 199 

Science Service, 140, 191-3 

Seribuer, Dr. Be We, oO, LOO geteo 

Seidell, Dr. Atherton (see also Filmstats), 114, 
117-8, 134 

Short Title Catalogue, 152, 133 

Simplified research techniques, 201-2 

Spencer Lens Company, 118, 150, 151, 1735 

Spielvogel, Joseph (see Vogeltype Paper) 

Spiral binding (see Binding) 

Standard Duplicator (see Hectographing) 

Standardization in microcopying, 141ff. 

Stapling (see Binding) 

Stephenson, Dr. Jean, 201 

Stereotype, 17, 25, 30 

Stineman developing reel, 130 

Stitching (see Binding) 


Tate, Dr. Vernon D., 175 
Tinker, Dr. Milles y AS, sco 
Tru-Vue, 119-20 
Type 
elite, 16, 31 
micro-elite, 32 
pica, 16, 31 
sizes, 17 
Typewriters 
Electromatic, 35,34, 41, 62 
standard, 31, 58, 82 
Varityper, 55, 54, 38, 82, 83 
Typing costs, 34ff. 


Union catalogues, 158, 159 


Van Dykes (see also Blueprinting), 65ff., 77 
Varityper (see Typewriters) 

Vernon, M. D., 17, 24, 38, 40, 54 
Verticaleial ing sedi 

Vogeltype paper, 535, 55 


Wilson, H. W. Company Plan, 194 
Wilson Union List, 135, 199 


Proper Name and Address Index 


A. B. Dick Company 
720 West Jackson Boulevard 
Chicago, Illinois 


Agfa Ansco Corporation 
Bingingham, New York 


Argus Camera 
International Research Corp. 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 


Bausch and Lomb Company 
Rochester, New York 


Donald P. Bean 
Unot Chicago Press 
Chicago, Illinois 


Dr. L. Bendikson 
Huntington Library 
San Marino, California 


Bibliofilm Service 
Department of Agriculture Library 
Washington, D. C. 


Dr. Joseph Broadman 
110 West 42nd Street 
New York, New York 


O. H. Cheney 
National Association of Book Publishers 
New York, New York 


Chicago Planograph Corp. 
517 South Jefferson Street 
Chicago, Illinois 


Cinescopie Company 
29 Rue aux Laines 
Bruxelles, Belgium 


Contax Camera 

Cari Zeiss, Inc. 
485 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 


Continental Lithograph Corp. 
Cleveland, Ohio 


Copifyer Corp. of Ohio 
1111 Power Avenue 
Cleveland, Ohio 


Dr 





205 


Stanton L. Davis 
Case School of Applied Science 
Cleveland, Ohio 


Watson Davis, Director 
Science Service 

2101 Constitution Avenue 
Washington, D. C. 


Dexigraph Corporation 
Remington Rand, Inc. 
465 Washington Street 
Buffalo, New York 


Dill and Collins Paper Co. 
Richmond and Tioga Streets 
Philadelphia, Penna. 


Ditto Duplicating Company 
Harrison at Oakley Blvd. 
Chicago, Mialimons 


R. R. Donnelley and Sons 
350 East 22nd Street 
Chicago, Lliimots 


Dee weebiEae kerr 

Caresor Bipliotilm pervaees 
Dept. of Agriculture Library 
Washington, D. C. 


Eastman Kodak Company 
Rochester, New York 


Edward Stern and Co., Inc. 
140 North Sixth Street 
Philadelphia, Penna. 


Edwards Brothers, Inc. 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 


Electromatic Typewriters 
International Business Machines 
270 Broadway 

New York, New York 


Folmer Graflex Corporation 
Rochester, New York 


Bradley A. Fiske 

Commodore Hotel 

42nd Street and Lexington Avenue 
New York, New York 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





International Filmbook Corporation 
Roekefeller Center 
New York, New York 


Lloyd B. Kennedy 
1556 Mahoning Ave. 
Warren, Ohio 


Re Leitz. ine. 
60 East 10th Street 
New York, New York 8. 


Lithoprint Company 
41 Warren Street 
New York, New York 


H. M, Lydenberg, Director 
New York Public Library 
New York, New York 


Thomas P, Martin 
Manuscripts Division 
Library of Congress 
Washington, D. C. 


Meriden Gravure Company 
Meriden, Connecticut 


Mimeoform Service 
1320 F Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 


Multigraph Corporation 
1200 Babbitt Road 
Cleveland, Ohio 


National Process Company 
75 Varick Street 
New York, New York 


Dr. Charles C, Peters 
Pennsylvania State College 
State College, Penna. 


Photoscopie, Inc. 
i121 Rue Berckmans 
Bruxelles, Belgium 


Photostat Corporation 
403 State Street 
Rochester, New York 


Recordak Corporation 
550 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 


Rectigraph Corporation 
Rochester, New York 


Rotaprint Corporation 
Prospect—-Fourth Building 
Cleveland, Ohio 


Dr. T. R. Schellenberg 
The National Archives 
Washington, D. C. 


B. W. Scribner 
Bureau of Standards 
Washington, D. C. 


Dr. Atherton Seidell 
U. S. Health Service 
Washington, D. C. 


Spencer Lens Company 
Buffalo, New York 


Spiral Binding Company 
Chicago, Illinois 


Standard New Process Duplicator 
Standard Mailing Machines 
Everett, Massachusetts 


Tru-Vue Company 
Rock Island, Illinois 


IMbiCKoe IES, ee 
251 Causeway Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 


Typary and Typon Company 
1-4 Red Lion Passage 
Fleet Street 

London, England 


Ullman Company 
319-327 McKibben Street 
Brooklyn, New York 


PROPER NAME AND ADDRESS INDEX 207 





Paul Vanderbilt, Superintendent W. 
Union Catalog Project of Philadelphia 
Commercial Museum 

354th below Spruce Street 

Philadelphia, Penna. 


Varityper Corporation 
2 Lafayette Street 
New York, New York 


Vogeltype Aligning Paper Corp. 
24 Commerce Street 
Newark, New Jersey 


Miss Marion Wilson, Supervisor 
Cleveland Union Catalog Project 
Thwing Hall 

Western Reserve University 
Cleveland, Ohio 


Worthy Paper Company 
West Springfield, Massachusetts 







Sienem 

; ev: ee 

i? ; sy ' @* - ~ i 

; : i . : Whew etaekew rare / 

an , 7 i ; <: Aa 4 2 eo rye i 

: . 7 i yee ret 'om art 
; : : it 


aay 


- y 
, 
- . 
7 : As 
7 ot rs 
7 , «2 er 





as at ' 


ja dea elit ane oy a ek yr 








