CHAPTER VII 


BOOKS CONTAINING CHARACTERS NOT IN THE ROMAN ALPHABET, TABULAR 








MATTER, DIAGRAMS, AND ILLUSTRATIONS 


Classification of Special Problems 

Taevanaly sis OL Composition costs 
of printed and typescript books has been 
made on the assumption that the vehicle for 
the recording or communicating of thought 
was to be a text consisting of words writ-— 
ten in the Roman alphabet. Under those 
conditions, composition costs follow the 
number of words. Two thousand words cost 
twice as much as 1000 words. 

There are, however, a number of 
Verrenvor OL vis Situation, each of wiiceh 
affects the computation of costs in their 
relation to quality of product. These va-— 
riant ways of presenting thought can be 
classified as follows: 





I. Presentation of thought in words and 
numerals. 

A. Words in the Roman alphabet and 
numerals arranged as usual in hori- 
zontal lines, but with variations 
in size or body introduced for pur- 
poses of emphasis. -(Use- of ital— 
ics, bold-face, or smaller point 
size in footnote material.) 

Words in the Roman alphabet and 

numerals arranged in vertical as 

well as horizontal lines. (Tabular 
material of all kinds.) 

C. Words interspersed with characters 
not in the Roman alphabet, or num-— 
erals not arranged in simple hori- 
wombal lines: (Rexts that: include 
quoted Greek, treatises with in- 
tricate formulae.) 

Pictorial presentation of thought. 

A. Black and white drawings. (From 
the standpoint of reproduction 
technique, diagrams, graphs, maps, 
and pictures in black and white 
are the same.) 

B. Photographs or wash drawings. (The 
essential fact is that the repro- 
duction must distinguish diiferent 


Tile 


degrees of light and shade; in- 
stead of the sharp contrast of 
black and white, there are contin-— 
Udus variations in tone.) 

G. Collor reproduction. 


In every case where one of these 
vehicles for the presentation of thought 
is used in connection with a text, the ex— 
GEM Om dus Use may, em giclee tole sates 
there may be many footnotes or few, many 
or few Chinese characters may be inter- 
spersed, there may be only one or two tab— 
ulations in a whole book, or the book may 
consist almost entirely of tabular materi- 
als. The pictorial material may be a 
greater om Less proportion @m the whole 
content of the book, it may be in the form 
of larger or smaller areas, large maps and 
charts, page-size photographs, or small 
PMCTURe Sore Charis ilies eacin Tomllacay wae 
of a page. 

In respect of all these variants of 
the "normal" Look, the same fundamental 
distinctions hold between large and small 
editions, between running costs of process— 
es like relief printing, which reduce the 
COS ON each ICOpy Tes" Une s Ze Ome rie ean 
tion increases, and of processes like the 
photostat, which have constant costs per 
Copy regardless ol Vsize Of 'edition.  Watin 
costs, there are also correlated different 
degrees of legibility in the case of words 
and numerals, and different degrees of 
fidelity of reproduction in the case of 
pictorial matter. There are variations in 
beauty im the final product that follow 
from the adoption of one or another tech- 
nique, or the assumption of one or another 
cost. There is a cost differential between 
the reproductions of text and picture that 
are sufficiently legible and faithful for 
the accurate transmission of thought, and 
reproductions which go beyond this neces-— 
sity in order to give aesthetic pleasure 
to the reader. 


81 


82 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





The processes already described—— 
relief printing, photo-offset, typescript, 
hectograph, mimeograph, manuscript with 
photo--offset, blueprinting and photostat— 
ing--all reappear in various combinations 
in the multiplying of materials of these 
various kinds. Descriptions and cost anal- 
yses of these processes contained in the 
preceding chapters can be applied to the 
problem presented here. 


Reproduction in Typescript, Manuscript, 


and Relief Printing without Pictorial Mat—- 
ter 


When a text consists of words in 
the Roman alphabet, arranged in horizontal 
lines, but with variations in size or body, 
the ordinary typewriter begins to lose ef- 
ficiency in comparison with the linotype 
or monotype on the one hand and the Vari- 
typer on the other. The standard typewrit-— 
er can introduce only three variations in- 
to the form of a text: it can underline 
words or sentences, change the interlinear 
spacing, and change the length of line. 
These variations are usually introduced in 
typescript to set off quoted matter from 
non-quoted matter. They do not always ma- 
terially increase typescript composition 
costs, and they affect multiplying costs 
of typescript books only in so far as these 
interfere with the use of non-standard in- 
terlinear spacing. If the spacing of four 
and one-half or five lines to the inch is 
used with pica typescript, the quoted mat— 
ter cannot be set off from the regular 
text by reducing the interlinear spacing. 
If footnotes are to be introduced, the com— 
position cost is increased by the need for 
careful calculation to distribute the page 
correctly between the text and footnote. 

The disadvantage of the standard 
typewriter in the preparation of typescript 
material with footnotes for photo-offset 
reproduction can be met to some extent by 
the use of paste pot and shears in the mak— 
ing of the format copy. The footnotes can 
be typed separately with an elite or micro- 
elite machine, and pasted on the bottom of 
the page of text. 

The Varityper will allow the in- 
troduction of a greater number of varie-— 
ties of typescript faces and the text and 
interlinear spacings. The linotype or 
monotype is still more elastic in this re- 
spect. 


Composition costs will sometimes 
increase with the introduction of these va- 
riants. To give a quantitative comparison 
of the increase in cost is not practical. 
The differences do not seem to be great 
enough to have decisive influence on the 
choice of techniques, unless (in the case 
of typescript composition) the need for the 
Varityper machine should make it impracti- 
cal to calculate typescript composition 
costs on any basis save that of the prices 
of format copying offered by photo-offset 
companies. In a particular case these 
shop prices may be so much higher than the 
office costs of standard typescript compo- 
sition that the change from typescript to 
relief printing would be indicated. 

In the preparation of tabular mat-— 
ter, the linotype or monotype exhibits ad- 
vantages because it facilitates the center- 
ing of text on a page and of the headings 
of columns. The typewriter stands at a 
disadvantage in the preparation of tabular 
material because of the lack of elasticity 
in the size of letters in the headings of 
columns. The mimeoform process is not well 
adapted to the production of tabular mate- 
rial because it does not easily reproduce 
vertical lines. The typewriter also shows 
its limitations when vertical lines on a 
page are desired. 

If tabular material is to be given 
its maximum beauty and clarity, it may call 
for manuscript composition. The kind of 
skill in lettering and numbering that is 
used in the manuscript composition of tab- 
ular material is widely available, since it 
is developed by the engineering profession 


and taught in vocational schools as "mechan- 


ical drawing." The three techniques avail-— 
able for the reproduction of tabular mate— 
rial are, then, relief printing, typescript 
with or without photographic multiplying, 
and manuscript with some photographic tech—- 
niques of multiplying (blueprinting, photo- 
stating, photo-offset, ete.) 

Cost comparisons are difficult to 
establish among the three kinds of composi- 
tion of tabular matter. In linotyping, the 
extra charge for tabular matter may run 
from 75% to 600%; in typescript, from 25% 
to 200%; and the cost of manuscript prepar- 
ation of tables can be guessed from the 
fact that draughtsmen are available at wag- 
es of #.60 per hour for ordinary skill and 
$1.00 per hour for high skill, and that 


~ 


CHARACTERS NOT IN ROMAN ALPHABET, TABULAR MATTER, DIAGRAMS, ILLUSTRATIONS 


their speed is much less than that of a 
ayia Site 

When words are interspersed with 
characters not in the Roman alphabet, the 
non—Roman characters may happen to be in 
another alphabet (i.e., Greek or Russian) 
that is available as a special matrix for 
the linotype, or as a special type font, or 
a special type plate for the Varityper. A 
font of type sufficient for occasional Rus— 
sian words in a book costs $30.00 or $40.00; 
a Varityper type plate costs $5.00 in ba- 
kelite and $8.50 in metal; a font of Chi- 
nese type varies in cost according to com— 
pleteness. There could be no linotype 
matrix or Varityper type plate for Chinese 
on account of the number of the symbols. 

The only alternative to the use of 
the special matrix, type font, or type 
plate is the use of manuscript. The text, 
as typed or printed in Roman characters, 
can be interspersed with the Chinese or 
other characters by hand. If the whole 
book is to be printed by relief printing, 
these hand-drawn symbols can be made into 
small line cuts, exactly as if they were 
drawings, and filled into the spaces left 
in the linotype or monotype composition; if 
the book is to be reproduced by a photo- 
graphic technique, they can be drawn in 
place upon the typescript or printed for- 
mat copy, after which no special costs 
will arise. 

In the case of a Bibliography on 
Northeastern Asia, compiled by Professor 
Kerner of the University of California, 
there were 15,500 items, of which 5,000 ti- 
tles were in the western language; 3,500 in 
Russian; 2,500 in Chinese; and 2,500 in 
Japanese. Letterpress reproduction was out 
of the question because of the high costs 
involved in connection with the foreign 
languages and the small-edition size; 
photo-offset was the ideal process for the 
job. The method proposed in the making of 
the master copy was to have the English 
typed in first, space being gauged and al- 
lowed for the other titles. The Russian 
was then to be typed in with a Hammond 
typewriter; these pages in turn were to be 
given over to a student who would write in 
the Chinese and Japanese characters by 
hand, in a size proportionate to the typ-— 
ing. The pages would then be ready to 


85 


serve as the master copy for the photo- 
offset work. Estimates for the composition 
cost of the master copy ranged from $1,200 
to $3,000. 

The need for special equipment and 
special skill in the reproduction of mate- 
rials with non-Roman alphabet content lim- 
its the competition for the work to certain 
specially favored plants. The author him- 
self may be in a position to assume some of 
the composition costs by filling in the 
non-Roman symbols in spaces left for the 
purpose in the typescript or printed com- 
position. This shifting of composition 
cost toward the author is a normal possi- 
bility in the production of typescript 
books; it becomes especially important if 
the preparation of the format copy requires 
a rare skill or knowledge that the author 
happens to command, either in himself or 
in his assistants. 


Techniques in the Reproduction of Pictorial 


Matter 

There are six fundamental tech- 
niques for the reproduction of pictorial 
matter. All of them involve the use of 
photography and hence permit enlargements 
or reductions from the original picture. 
The costs of all of them are fundamentally 
area costs and running costs, for one can 
hardly speak of a composition cost factor 
in the reproduction of pictures. Most of 
them have already been described and anal- 
yzed in connection with the reproduction 
of texts. They must here be given further 
description and classification. 

The six fundamental techniques are 
the following: 


1. Relief processes. These come up from 
the original wood-block technique. Ink 
is carried to paper on the raised part 
of the printing surface. The standard 
forms in which this technique appears 
in small edition book publishing are 
the zine cut and the zinc or copper 
photoengraving. 

&. Planographic processes. These are re—- 
lated to the original lithography. A 
plane surface differentially receptive 
to ink receives the ink from a roller 
and transfers it to the paper. Photo- 
offset is the standard form. 


1. Note that in this case a single copy of the book would be printed as page proof, filled in by hand, 


and then multiplied by photo-offset. 


84 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





5. Intaglio processes. These are variants 
of etching. Ink is carried to paper in 


the sunken parts of a metal surface. 

4. Photogelatin or collotype. This proc-— 
ess bears some resemblance to plano- 
graphic processes because the printing 
surface is differentially receptive to 
ink and moisture, some resemblance to 
intaglio because there are actually 
raised parts of the surface that reject 
ink and depressed parts that receive it. 

5. Photosensitive paper processes. These 
are blueprinting, photostating, and 
photography. In these processes there 
is no use of ink. The paper used, for 
multiplying the pictorial matter is 
covered over its entire area with a 
photosensitive surface and then sub ject— 
ed to the action of light and to chem-— 
ical action that transfers the image to 
aimee 

6. Projection image processes. These 
respond to microcopying. They are 
same as those using photosensitive 
except that the image is developed on a 
transparent medium (glass or film) in a 
reduced size and then rendered useful 
by projection on a screen. 


cor— 
the 
paper 


Color production processes are va- 
riants of these. They will receive no 
SpecralediS cuss lOnm Im bol SmCh ang Crem nloit 
because they lack importance, but rather 
because their complexity makes analysis of 
costs and results) ditiiculy, and thei: 
place in the reproduction of materials of 
scholarship is subordinate to that of the 
monochromatic processes. 

In all of these processes there 
are different degrees of fidelity in re- 
production of pictorial matter. These dif- 
ferences are of two kinds: differences in 
fineness of detail and differences in fine- 
HESSmOnmmacCCuracy Ol stone'. 

4 The fineness of detail is primar— 
Diveaecesultanu om size. eAnword sinaie pace 
ture multiplied in a copy 6" x 9" will 
show more detail than the same picture 
Multiplied! in a. copy 3" x 41/2". But the 
method of reproduction has something to do 
with it. The 3" x 41/2" copy made by the 
photosensitive paper process on a good bro- 
mide paper might show more detail than the 
6" x 9" copy made on photostat paper; the 
smaller copy carefully photoengraved with 
a high screening would show more detail 





than the larger copy done with a low 


sereening. These terms will be explained 
below; the essential fact to be established 
at this point is the quality of fineness of 
detail as an element in the reproduction of 
pictorial matter. 

The variations in accuracy or fine- 
ness of tone are evident in the first in- 
stance in the contrast between a pen and 
ink drawing and a photograph. The pen and 
ink drawing has but two tones—-black and 
white; the photograph has a number of in- 
termediate tones. Some processes of re- 
production (such as telephoto on newsprint 
paper) will render with recognizable dis-— 
tinctness only three or four tones; pho- 
tography on a soft bromide paper will ren- 
der so many different tones that the meas-— 
ure of them is given not by the actual sur- 
face of the picture, but by the sensitiv— 
ity of the human eye to distinctions in 
I chitin ens ti cyse 

Moreover, some processes will show 
the maximum number of distinctions in tone 
in the lighter greys and will cause all the 
darker areas of the picture to take on a 
flat black. This is especially true of the 
photogelatin process. Others will bring 
out very clearly the different tones in the 
darker areas but show few differences of 
shading in the lighter parts. The success 
of a particular process in separating the 
tones of a picture carries with it success 
in exhibiting some kinds of detail. 

Another distinction to be made be- 
tween these processes is their different 
degrees of adaptability in the combining of 
pictorial and textual matter. The relief 
pictorial processes combine with relief 
printing in the production of books, the 
planographic processes with photo-offset 
printing. Intaglio and photogelatin proc-— 
esses are used for the production of pic-— 
torial matter separate from text but are 
capable of being combined with text in a 
bound form. There seems to be no good 
technical reason for not combining photo-— 
gelatin pictorial work with reproduction of 
text by photogelatin, though the combina-— 
tion has not actually entered trade prac— 
tice. Pictures made on photosensitive pa- 
per can also be bound into books. Only 
pictures made on transparent media for pro- 
jection are absolutely incapable of combi- 
navion wlth Gext ins bookperorm ss Anymore 
of these processes can be used to reproduce 





pictorial matter in a form or size that 
will not be bound with the text in a book 
but will go to the reader of the book as a 
separate item. 


Photoengraving and Photo-Offset 
The fundamental elements of the 


photo-offset process have been explained 
in the chapter on the reproduction of out-— 
of-—print books and have received further 
reference in the chapter on the photo- 
offset reproduction of typescript books. 

The first part of the photo-offset 
process is the fundamental one in the re- 
production of pictorial matter in large 
editions, because it appears not only in 
the production of books by photo-offset, 
but also as an intermediate stage in the 
preparation of line cuts and photoengrav— 
ineseior relief printing'. 

The first stage in this process is 
the making of a photographic negative. 
While photolithographers have developed 
the use of film and paper negatives, photo-— 
engravers have remained loyal to the wet 
plate process for making negatives. There 
Homomvechnological reason for this; it is 
the result rather of the traditions of the 
craft. 

The photographic negative is then 
transferred to a sensitized metal surface. 
The image is burned on to a zinc sheet 
that has been coated with albumen and am-— 
monium bichromate, the unfixed emulsion is 
washed off, and the zine surface is inked. 
Up to this point the photo-offset process 
and photoengraving process are the same. 
So far as the chemical quality of the met- 
al surface is concerned, it would be ready 
to be clipped on to.a photo-offset press. 
But an additional stage is necessary if 
the metal is to be prepared for relief 
printing. 

The additional step, required for 
the sake of using the relief printing prin- 
ciple, is an application of an acid etch 
to the prepared zinc sheet. The inked 
plate is dusted with powdered resin or 
"dragon's blood," which adheres to the ink 
and falls off the clean metal. The drag- 
'on's blood is melted into place by warming 

the zine. This will protect the printing 
surface from acid. Then the zinc is bathed 
in acid. Repeated baths of acid and coat-— 
'ings of dragon's blood cut away the ex— 
posed parts of the plate and leave the pro- 


CHARACTERS NOT IN ROMAN ALPHABET, TABULAR MATTER, DIAGRAMS, ILLUSTRATIONS 


85 


tected parts as a raised printing surface. 
When the printing surface is prepared in 
this way, it is tacked on a wooden block 
and is then ready to be fitted in with 
linotype slugs or monotype composition in 
a flat-—bed press. 

Of course the two processes are not 
in practice as interchangeable as this de- 
scription might make it appear. The photo- 
offset worker uses a special thin metal 
sheet, which may be aluminum rather than 
zinc; the photoengraver uses a heavier 
sheet of metal which he will cut up into 
blocks. He may use copper or nickel in- 
stead of zinc. The traditions of the two 
crafts are very different, but the chemis— 
try of the process is the same, save that 
the photoengraver must carry out an addi- 
tional step, namely, the acid etch. 

In the photo-offset process this 
preparation of the printing surface is 
identical for text and for black-and-white 
pictorial matter. In the relief printing 
process the preparation of the printing 
surface for the text by linotype is quite 
different from the preparation of the pic-— 
torial printing surface or line cut. There- 
fore, in relief printing, an additional 
cost: factor must be taken into account—— 
the fitting together of pictorial and tex- 
tual printing surfaces. This cost factor 
is absent from the photo-offset process. 


Half-—tone Pictures in Photo-Offset and 
Photoengraving 

Photo-offset and photoengraving 
present the same similarities as and dif- 
ferences from other processes when pictori- 
al matter to be reproduced is not a black- 
and—white image, but a half—tone picture 
showing different shades of grey. To print, 
whether by photo-offset or relief technique, 
a picture that will show different shades 
of grey requires resort to an optical il- 
dS. 

If a number of small dots on a 
white ground are seen from a reading dis-— 
tance they will appear to run together as 
grey. The grey will be lighter or darker 
according to the density of the dots—-that 
is to say, according to the proportion of 
the paper surface they occupy. The tone 
will seem smooth or rough according to the 
size of the dots. The photoengraver or 
photo-offset printer, when he reproduces a 
photograph, renders the greys intermediate 


86 





between black and white by printing aggre- 
gations of dots. The newspaper reproduc-— 
tions of photographs are so coarse that 
they can be analyzed by the naked eye into 
their constituent arrays of dots; there 
are small black dots in the lighter greys, 
larger ones in the darker greys, while in 
the darkest greys the black dots rum to- 
gether, leaving small white dots between 
them. 

To break the continuous tones of 
an original photograph into a printing sur- 
face that will, by putting dots on paper, 
give an illusion of a comparable range of 
tone, the photoengraver or photolithograph- 
er prepares his negative in a special way. 
He uses a "screen." The screen is a com-— 
bination of two sheets of glass, ruled di- 
agonally with opaque lines crossing at 
right angles, and cemented and bound to- 
gether. When the light passes through such 

"a screen, it reaches the plate in dots and 
so causes the image on the negative to ap- 
pear in dots also. Four main factors de— 
termine these dot formations: the amount 
of light reflected by the copy (i.e., the 
light and shade tones of the photograph 
that is being copied), the size of the open- 
ings used in the camera, the distance of 
the screen from the photographic plate, 
and the fineness of the screen. The fine- 
ness of the screen is expressed in lines 
to the inch and varies from 45 to 400. 

The screening of the photograph is 
a stage in the preparation of the negative, 
whether wet plate, film, or paper. When 
the screened negative has been prepared, 
the further steps in the process, whether 
for photo-offset or relief printing, are 
identical with the steps that must be tak- 
en in the case of black-and-white drawings. 

There has been devised a special 
kind of screen made up of very small lens 
formations stamped in a sheet of heavy 
transparent cellulosic film.) it wis said 
that this screen simplifies the work of 
making screened negatives and may there- 
fore reduce the skilled labor element in 
the cost of making screened photographs. 

Half—tones screened up to 100 to 
the inch are made on zinc, above that they 
are usually made on copper, and very fine 
screening is done on nickel. The photo- 
offset press can reproduce half-tones 
screened as fine as 175, but generally us- 
es screens from 120-150 lines to the inch. 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


The ordinary photographic work seen in the 
advertising pages of magazines is screened 
120-155 lines to the inch; newspaper 
photographs are screened 45 to 65 lines; 
the aquatone process, a variant of photo- 
offset, uses screens up to 400 lines to the 
fa char 

In general, the finer the screen 
the more faithful will be the reproduction 
of detail. The reader who would appraise 
the effect of refinement in screening upon 
rendition of detail and richness of tone is 
referred to the exhibits bound herewith. 
(Figures XLVI-XLIX.) The photographic work 
on the finer screens is no more costly than 
on the coarse screens, but the printing is 
more difficult. The finer the screen the 
more careful the presswork must be, and the 
smoother the finish of the paper upon which 
it is to be printed. The photo-offset- 
press does not require the delicate make- 
ready necessary with highly screened plates 
on a flat-—bed press, but the tones rendered 
by the offset method often appear flat in 
contrast with the products of photoengrav— 
ing. 


The Large and Small Offset Presses in Pic- 
torial Work 


TneChap rerwkiisymro nee pin Tiulnieamons 
books, it was stated that there are two 
kinds of photo-offset presses: the large 
press, such as the Harris press, used by 


printers for commercial work; and the small- 


er presses, such as the rotaprint and mul- 
tilith, used also as office equipment by 
non-professional operators. In Chapter V, 
on the typescript book, there was included 
a discussion of plate size in connection 
with format, and of the use of direct typ- 
ing on the metal sheet of the smaller 
photo-offset presses. 

In this chapter, where illustrative 
material is under discussion, it becomes 
necessary to compare the efficiency of the 
large and small presses in respect of fine- 
ness of work. Needless to say, the quality 
of a press is reflected in its work in the 
reproduction of books out of print and in 
the reproduction of typescript books; but 
the presswork becomes most important when 
screened photographs are to be reproduced, 
for differences in quality of presswork 
manifest themselves most clearly in the re- 
production of half—tones. 

The representatives of the 


elite me 





"3 TRAEMAE KHARORE Vit M On. zn 


PX TOMER ALYE Areu ey ty ye oe 


eh 


"TOU OU > we rE pare vey Tore 
carpe dhe "Tex c pide tT, Awe 
SAX op oy re ret rors x20U -1 po 
TOP OUITHO LEY ow ¥ + "Joa 





ceva, PeHod oH a~eu st paar 


BEV SOU: Cpeer owe: pee 
Tk wees * 6) #8 reyou TO 


F 


} 


ee: = ee ie fee 


© 
3 
5 

oe 


* 
¥ 

z 

Be 











This is 133-screen 


This is 80-screen 











eu eu ~ WC re Pperapes evo 


oj Feu esypo eee 


erre pe heey 
Ad op che re8 ACe. sou "Pe 
ae 6 ot BW os " te 
rceued ors S fav od op o-ou € 2a 
Rev oou- cpers wong te 


Th Cw issae>* 4 6) neo % 


fF 


P eye Tre AYE at eULG Xu 4 e 


=u eu> uae re Pps eToys 


7 
odse Torn ~ 1 Sooke nye, owe 


nee Gert ASH AOU TIPO 
PERE Ho) Ie IY - oo x H Ju 

cuore Pree bee evs aN 
SEER ROU cpeyn oy ip 


THRE ssa fis) oT 


P 











-screen i 


This is 175 


FIGURE XLI 


This is 150-screen 


WORK DONE ON HARRIS PRESS 





TEMAS KH AG ONE Vit 


tet Sou erp, sre 
be rr Age sou mirpe 
rp 8 OUI Te wes oF om foe 
OK Eu or: , Pawo Sve € AAR 
ee eo: cheer ee Ty EF 
Th Cw ac - 4 6) taaroves || 


P 


Pe 


me om & os 
HR STE ABP HOU TIERS 
AEE abe. 


CRE ERE EC RIE ROE ISP 


ie 





screen 


This is 133- 


This is 80-screen 

















KA TMA ROH Agi ONG Viste ALOE 


' PeKt P CLAE AE OO Deo re 


peu ov* wIerr rparapas ep Pore 
: A ona e 
w ferret Feo yh Ae 
f ve * ' . ' 
he ore Ach eeu mires 
~ure o os reg Pre. 
Cricevasort, Tree & 


<peee wo wey ee 


C7 wpe * 7H sickom TE. 


, ~ De ee rpereqon ep [or 
r 7 es ese 
podse fora - PS ee ty Sore 


prs - 
> OV 220U "TP? 
POX AWE AS" 2 


arp o Gwe useu oo x y fa 
tix D 


otr. Fae eS op oovs' ss rs 


. cpyper woe 7 ep 
7 Gs) Ao TE 





-screen 


This 182270 


This is 150-screen 


WORK DONE ON ROTAPRINT 





KHARONE WIEMIONE 
Bg TOME ITE RUS CU OXY A es 
peu gu ac et eperaper tp fore 
" ner 8 | Bene sore 
KAD OF Gyre ALH? Bao orp 
Y ose 6 Usa eu oe xg de 
UDICE asa. Tero OPO 
pyr 10 oP 
senor CS 








screen 


© 
t9 
Coma 
n 
ot 
Li] 
ot 
& 
e 


screen 


This is 80 











GF 


WO) + he oe Roper ¢ tp 


* > ' 


woken se Fees ryan cere 


SERS: 


Axe Ora ree 


* 
arp 8 rts Se eeu * 
i S 


6 Vie ALONE 


AMT ME ANE ae Tew ty oe yrs 


"fore 


oP AAD: STOR 


oe 


5 , x A awn 
THISEV ort. te: oe AEE AL: z 


Ce fheny: chert wor yp er 


RSS ymaen 1 Psy sacdore FE? 


, 


r cas 


«eC ©F Cp aropes ra wifers 


es 


Orson Agv 2 anoU Trpo 


Se eu 


a 2 Tees & 


x 


when. Foes eM e410 


oa op Jeu 
op Tou tan 


ue spre" mo E Ty en 
yaad * 4 GB) aro TCS 


if 


f 











screen 


THiS. iL Ss evo 


WORK DONE ON MULTILITH 


-screen 


This is 150 


FIGURE XLIII 






manufacturers of these presses make various 
claims as to the quality of their products. 
To lay the matter objectively before the 
reader, the Joint Committee has taken two 
photographs—-an archeological picture and 

a manuscript——-and had them both screened at 
B80, 155, 150, and 175 lines to the inch. 
"This negative, with its four different 
screenings, was then run on the rotaprint 
(Figure XLII), the multilith (Figure XLIII), 
and the Harris press (Figure XLI). The 
differences between fineness of screening 
can be noted by comparing, on the same 
page, the first and last reproductions; the 
differences in presswork, and presumably 
'in efficiency of the press, are detected 
by comparing a reproduction in one screen- 
ing on one press with the reproduction in 

_ the Same screening on another press. 


; 
_Photogelatin or Collotype 
j In the reproduction of half-—tone 


q 
'pictures, there is an alternative to the 
use of the optical illusion produced by 
_the arrangement of dots on a white back- 
ground. The ink itself may be laid on the 
paper in a surface of varying depth. Any- 
one who examines a badly printed page of 
type may observe that some of the letters 
are lighter than others because the print-— 
er has not given the paper an even pres— 
"sure on the type metal surfaces; some let-— 
'ters are therefore printed in a lighter 
mone than others. This same principle of 
warying the amount of ink that is laid on 
-a paper surface will reproduce half—tones. 
The two techniques that utilize this prin- 
'Ciple are photogelatin (sometimes called 
-collotype) and photogravure. 

In photogelatin printing, as in 
dermaprint, the chemical basis of the proc- 
ess is the action of gelatin and a bichro- 
mate under the influence of light. A plate 
of glass or metal that has been ground to 
give it a tooth is covered with gelatin 
that has been made light-sensitive by being 
treated with ammonium bichromate, and is 
rapidly dried with heat. The rapid drying 
Sileaves the gelatin in a state of strain. 
It is ready, on the slightest provocation, 

to crackle like the paint on a badly 
painted surface. This crackling is called 
"reticulation." At this point photography 
intervenes. 
The sensitized gelatin-—covered 
plate in exposed to light in a vacuum 


~~ 














CHARACTERS NOT IN ROMAN ALPHABET, TABULAR MATTER, DIAGRAMS, ILLUSTRATIONS 87 


printing frame through a photographic nega-— 
tive. The transparent parts of the nega-— 
tive (i.e., the ones which will print black 
in the finished copy) allow the light to 
tan the bichromated gelatin; the dark parts 
of the negative leave the gelatin untanned. 
When the plate is then developed in water, 
the gelatin crackles or reticulates, be- 
cause the tanned gelatin on top resists the 
expansion of the soft gelatin below. This 
cracked surface has a crepelike formation 
with more reticulation in the high lights 
and less in the shadows. This grain in 
photogelatin is much finer than the grain 
of a highly screened photoengraving. More— 
over, the photogelatin plate does not ex— 
hibit, like the photolithographic plate, a 
sharp distinction between the parts that 
will take ink and those that will not. The 
amount of the tanning effect upon the gel- 
atin and the degree of reticulation show 
continuous gradations from those parts of 
the plate that have received most light to 
those that have received least. 

When the photogelatin plate has 
been exposed and developed, it is moistened 
with a mixture of glycerine and water be- 
fore being inked. The glycerine—water mix- 
ture does two things: first, it swells the 
untanned parts of the gelatin surface so 
that they rise slightly higher than the 
tanned and reticulated parts. This permits 
the ink to lie more heavily in the parts of 
the plate that have received most light 
during exposure under the photographic neg— 
ative. Because of this slight difference 
in height of printing surface, the process 
is sometimes called an intaglio process. 

The second thing done by the gly— 
cerine—water mixture is more in line with 
photolithographic principles. Since the 
raw glycerine absorbs more moisture than 
the tanned gelatin, it is less receptive 
to ink. The soft gelatin acts like the 
moistened metal surface of the photolitho- 
graphic plate, taking water and rejecting 
ink. The supply of moisture on the gelatin 
is not replenished from any water roller, 
but from the air. The glycerine picks up 
the moisture from the air. 

The photogelatin plate will not 
make as many impressions as the photolith— 
ographic plate. When the gelatin is laid 
on glass, it lasts for about 5000 impres- 
sions; when laid on aluminum, for 5000 to 
10,000 impressions. Because of the short 


88 


life of the plate, the photogelatin proc-— 
ess is not suited to long runs. 

In the photogelatin technique, 
photographs are reproduced without screen-— 
INGR ee LaS hack mayne PeSulL gaan LoWwemmcosius 
than would appear in photoengraving or even 
in photo-offset of screened photographs. 

Another peculiarity of the photo-— 
gelatin technique is the ability to repro- 
duce pictures printed as photoengravings. 
It is very difficult to make a new screened 
photoengraving from a published half-—tone, 
because the light from the aggregation of 
dots in the half—tone does not behave in 
the screening like light from an original 
photograph or wash drawing. If an author 
wishes to use from a published book a 
photoengraved illustration, he can secure 
a much more accurate copy with the photo- 
gelatin technique than with the photoen- 
graving or photo-offset technique. In a 
series of history books, The Rise of Modern 
Europe, the firm of Harper Brothers used 
photogelatin for the reproduction of illus- 
trations. The use of this process has made 
it much easier than it would otherwise be 
to gather the illustrative material, be- 
cause pictures could be copied without go- 
ing back to the photographs from which the 
photoengraved prints were made. 

The presses used in the photogela— 
tin process are of two types: the rotary 
presses, taking large flexible metal sheets 
(usually aluminum); and the flat-bed press- 
es, which use a thick sheet of glass. The 
dimensions of these presses vary. The Con- 
tinental Lithograph Corporation of Cleve- 
land has rotary presses 44" x 64"; the 
Meriden Gravure Company of Meriden, Con- 
necticut, uses a flat—bed press 28" x $9". 

The principle explained in connec-— 
tion with the photo-offset process, that 
that format is least costly which uses the 
largest proportion of the available print- 
ing surface area with least wastage, ap- 
plies equally to photogelatin. 

The photogelatin process, primarily 
used for illustrations either in book pub- 
lications or in posters, could be adapted 
to the reproduction of textual matter. 
There is no technological obstacle to the 
preparation of copy for the photogelatin 
process in the form of typescript text and 
unscreened photographic prints or negatives. 
Two full—tone collotype reproductions are 
shown herewith (Figure XLIV, XLV). Note 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 








also the enlargement of microcopied print 
in Chapter XI, Exhibit LXITI. 

The limitation imposed upon 
process by the rapid wearing out of 
printing surface has influenced the 
the process commercially. But this 
tion is more like an advantage when the 
process is considered in connection with 
the reproduction of research materials, for 
the accountancy and trade practices of the 
photogelatin shop have adapted themselves 
to the short runs that are common to all 
research publications. 


this 
the 
use of @ 
limita-_ 


Intaglio Processes: Photogravure 

All intaglio printing processes use 
a metal plate in which shallow depressions 
receive ink, which is then transmitted to 
paper, making a darker tone where the de- 
pression is deepest, and a lighter tone 
where the depression is slight. 

The photogravure process is a 
photochemical intaglio technique. A smooth 
sheet of copper is first given a very fine 
dusting with powdered asphaltum or resin. 
When this fine dust is baked on to the 
plate it furnishes a protective grain, com— 
parable to the grain that appears in the 
photogelatin process when the gelatin 
reticulates under the influence of the 
He Gre 

Then a film of bichromated gelatin 
is laid on the copper plate and printed on 
the same principle as that which is used 
in the photogelatin process, except that 
in this case it is printed from a positive 
photograph instead of a negative. The 
light therefore hardens the gelatin in 
those parts of the picture that are to be 
light, and leaves it soft in those parts 
of the picture that are to be dark. The 
copper plate is then put into an acid bath, 
which quickly eats away the soft gelatin 
and gets to work on the copper; but its ac-— 
tion on the copper is slower to the degree 
that the hardening of the gelatin (as an 
effect of light) has slowed it down. Thus 
the copper plate will emerge from the proc— 
ess with depressions that are deepest in 
those areas which correspond to the dark 
places in the positive photograph and 
slightest in the places that correspond to 
the light places in the original photo- 
graph. 








FIGURE XLIV 


treatment of lighter shades. 


Note fine 








FIGURE XLV 


darker shades, but 


ara 


Note lack of resolution 


Pine predatious im lighter shades. 








FIGURE XLVI 








Zinc half-tone screened at 80 lines to the inch. The loss in the rendering of detail, 
as compared with the 133 screening (FIGURE XLVII), can be seen in the statues, 
windows, and automobiles. 





FIGURE XLVII 


De 
é i 





Copper half-tone screened at 133 lines to the inch. The gain in the rendering of 
detail, as compared with the 80 screening (FIGURE XLVI), can be noted in the 
statues, windows, and automobiles. 








FIGURE XLVIII 








Zinc half-tone screened at 80 lines to the inch. Compare the flat rendering of 
shadows in the vaulting with the higher screening (FIGURE XLIX), and note 
also the finer detail of light and shadow in the higher screening. 


FIGURE XLIX 





Copper halftone screened at 133 lines to the inch. Note the resolution of the 
darker shades in the vaulting as compared with FIGURE XLVIII. 


a igh Ue 


i 





tans 


i . i an 
ba Rh Fetal. 





72S 


7s 





Cc 
S$ 
€ 
ie 
7s 
c 
3 
o 
> 
o 
2 
te 
3 
° 
o 
© 


FIGURES 


Note accurate rendition of 


fine details 


Reproduced by the Aquatone Process by 


EDWARD STERN & COMPANY, INC. 


PHILADELPHIA, PA. 


hand. 





One of the advantages of the photo- 
gravure method over others is the ease 
with which the plate can be retouched by 
The shadows can be darkened, for 
instance, by deepening the depressions in 
the copper. 


Aquatone and Pantone 
Two variants of the photo-offset 


process should be mentioned at this time. 
One of them is the aquatone process, a 
planographic process that produces remark— 
ably faithful reproductions of photographs 
from a gelatin plate. It is not a widely 
used process, Edward Stern and Company, 
Inc., of Philadelphia being the only es- 
tablishment the author knows of that does 
this kind of work,* but it makes very fine 
reproductions. It has many similarities 
to the photogelatin method. An example of 
aquatone work is displayed herewith (Fig- 
ure L). 





The aquatone plate is made of a 
thin sheet of zinc. Edward Stern and Com-— 


_ pany, Inc., uses a 45" x 54" plate for its 


presses. To furnish a base for the gela- 
tin coating, the zine sheet is "grained! 
with quartz; the gelatin is then applied, 
set, and washed in a hardening solution. 
For further hardening, the plate is baked 
to 200° F. A bichromate sensitizer is 
used to make the gelatin light sensitive, 
and then the plate is put in a printing 
frame in contact with the illustration it 


mis desired to reproduce. 





_ the press. 
run. 


The illustration to be reproduced, 
which has been stripped onto a sheet of 
glass, is pressed into close contact with 
the plate, and the printing is accomplished 
by exposure of the sensitive plate to a 
strong arc lamp. The light makes the sen- 
sitized gelatin which has been exposed be- 


| come impervious to water and alcohol. When 


the printing stage is passed, water and 
alcohol are used to develop the plate; 
this water and alcohol solution removes 
the unaffected bichromate and leaves a 
positive image. A second baking toughens 
the gelatin and gives it a longer life on 
The plate is now ready to be 


During all this preparatory work, 
cleanliness, controlled temperature condi- 


CHARACTERS NOT IN ROMAN ALPHABET, TABULAR MATTER, DIAGRAMS, ILLUSTRATIONS 


89 


tions, and precision are essential for good 
results. 

The plate is fastened to a cylinder 
and fed water during each revolution by a 
water roller. The average plate runs about 
£0,000 impressions, but a run of 30,000 or 
more is quite possible. Only the gelatin 
that has not been affected by the light 
will absorb the water; therefore, when the 
ink rollers come into contact with the cyl- 
inder, the ink is repelled by the dampened 
gelatin and attracted by the dry positive 
image. The rubber blanket cylinder, receiv— 
ing the ink that has been deposited on the 
plate, comes in turn in contact with the 
impression cylinder and brings the paper 
into position for receiving the ink impres-— 
sion. 

Offset paper with a very hard 
rough surface is best suited for aquatone 
work. 

The cost of aquatone work compares 
with that of fine offset work. 

The second variant is the pantone 
or mercury process. Pantone is a compli- 
cated process designed to make use of a 
principle similar to that of photolithog-— 
raphy to prepare a printing surface which 
will stand long rums and be very resistant 
to wear. It makes use of the fact that 
chromium is a hard metal which will accept 
and transfer ink, while mercury will re- 
fuse ink. The chromium serves instead of 
the grease of primitive lithography; the 
mercury takes the place of water on the 
wet surface of the stone. 

Although this process is not use— 
ful in cheapening small editions, it is 
interesting as an illustration of the va- 
riety of techniques which can be used in 
printing. A sheet of iron is coated with 
a thin surface of copper and a very thin 
surface of chromium on top of the copper, 
and then a photographic emulsion on top of 
the chromium. The text is transferred to 
the plate in the usual photolithographic 
method, and the parts of the metal which 
ordinarily receive water are etched with 
acid through the chromium to the copper. 
Silver is then deposited on the plate and 
adheres to the copper but avoids the chrom- 
ium. The mercury is rubbed over the plate, 
and the mercury amalgamates with the silver. 


2. Edward Stern and Company, Inc., has made available an excellent booklet, "What Is Aquatone?" which 


gives a detailed description of the process. 


90 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


The result is an all-metal plate which will] a picture of this size can be used in an 


print without using the raised-type princi- 
ple. Related processes are the Renck and 
Porte methods. 

Some efforts have been made to use 
the mercury process for combining the 
photolithographic principle with the me— 
chanics of the flat-—bed press. The proc-— 
ess is also used with the offset press. It 
has no immediate practical importance in 
connection with the problems of reproduc— 
ing research materials. 


Dermaprint 

The dermaprint stencil method has 
been described in connection with the re- 
production of out-of-print books. It is 
the coarsest of the multiplying techniques 
that utilize the photographic principle. 
The dermaprint stencil will reproduce 
line drawings, but in the reproduction of 
screened pictures it will take only the 
coarsest screens. Dermaprint screening is 
not even as fine as the segreening used in 
newspaper work. 


Photosensitive Paper Processes 
Illustrations can be copied by the 
various blueprinting techniques, by photo- 
stat, and by photographic printing on bro- 
mide paper. The differences in quality are 
not unlike those differences that appear 
in the other techniques: they are differ- 
ences in the accuracy in the rendition of 
detail, and differences in faithfulness in 
the reproduction of tones. The so-called 
"soft" bromide papers give the widest 
range of tones; hard bromide papers and 
photostat papers offer a much reduced range, 
and the blueprint types of paper offer even 
less tone variety. The variation in ac— 
curacy in the rendering of detail is the 
same: the bromide prints are most accu— 
rate and the blueprints least accurate. 
The costs naturally are in reverse order. 
In making cost comparisons, two 
types of material should be distinguished: 
those requiring only black-and-white con- 
trast and those requiring half-tones. 


Cost Comparisons 

ive Vsicar hing point omecocstaCompart— 
sons must be a picture of a given area re= 
produced in editions of varying size. The 
dimensions of the picture chosen for this 
first comparative table are 4" x 6" because 





ordinary octavo! DOO GMs xO" eeucmacmas— 
sumed, moreover, that 100 illustrations of 
identical size are required. The book here 
described is, therefore, a book of 100 pag-— 
es of pictorial material, consisting of 6" 
x 9" pages with pictorial matter 4" x 6" on 
each page. 

This crude comparison indicates 
that in size of edition the processes that 
operate by diminishing costs (photo-offset, 
photoengraving, photogelatin, photogravure) 
begin to become cheaper than the processes 
involving more constant costs (blueprint, 
photostat, bromide photographs) when the 
edition is between 50 and 100 copies. But 
there are a number of other variables to be 
considered. These variables relate both to 
cost conditions and quality conditions. 

One variation in cost conditions 
has to do with the number of different pic-— 
tures reproduced. If the specifications 
called for the reproduction of only one or 
five or twelve pictures instead of a hun- 
dred, would there be a substantial modifi- 
cation of the cost relationships that ap- 
pear on the foregoing table? If the pic-— 
torial matter were in larger pictorial -sur- 
faces or smaller pictorial surfaces, would 
the processes still stand in the same cost 
order? 

The information needed to answer 
these questions accurately is not at hand. 
There are, however, certain concrete quota- 
tions which can be set down and then com-— 
pared in so far as they are comparable. All 
the diminishing cost techniques are repre-— 
sented, for quotations have been given by 
a firm specializing in photogravure and a 
firm specializing in photogelatin, and 
photoengraving prices are highly stand— 
ardized. These quotations are taken to 
cover different sizes of picture and dif- 
ferent sizes of page, according to the 
table on page 92. 


Combination of Pictorial and Textual Mat-— 
ter 

The full complexity of the cost 
analysis of the reproduction of pictorial 
matter does not appear until allowance is 
made for the different ways in which pic— 
tures may be combined with text. 

The simplest situation is that of 
the photo-offset book illustrated with 
black-and-white drawings, charts, or maps. 








FIGURE LI 
Photo-Offset Halftone 
(120 lines to the inch) 
Geoffrey Landesman, Photographer 


= 


a eae: _ y a 
ae reve (9) 
oe or cas 6 et y ~ 
- on A 
a. at ie ye \ 
bags 


» 4 is 








FIGURE LII 
Photo-Offset Halftone 
(120 lines to the inch) 
Geoffrey Landesman, Photographer 


CHARACTERS NOT IN ROMAN ALPHABET, TABULAR MATTER, DIAGRAMS, ILLUSTRATIONS ou 





TABLE XXXI 


COST, EXCLUSIVE OF BINDING, OF A BOOK OF 100 PAGES 6" x 9", EACH 
PAGE CONTAINING PICTORIAL MATTER OF SIZE 4" x 6" 








Here the pictorial material is simply com-— 
bined with the format copy, and no fur- 
ther effect upon cost is felt. 

Whenever pictorial material is to 
be combined with relief printing, the cost 
of fitting the type around the photoen- 
-graved blocks must be met. 

When half—tone work is combined 
with text in photo-offset the cost of the 
screening must be added to the normal. cost 
of photo-offset book production. 

Consider the situation of an au- 
thor who has written a book and wishes to 
illustrate it. He has gathered as illus- 
trations either drawings or photographs. 
The photographs may be original prints or 
copies from printed photoengravings. He 
now wishes to determine the process to be 
used in publishing. 

Tihs "edturon in co be Less than 
fifty, he will probably fare best if he 
makes up a typescript book by one of the 
processes and in one of the formats dis- 
cussed in Chapter V, and then has the 








Process Edition 
LO rs 0 100 250 500 1000 

Blue line print from Y 

paper negative $41.50 | $ 70.00 | $117.50 | $212.50 | $ 497.50 | $ 972.50 | $1922.50 
B-W 19.00 47.50 95.00 190.00 475.00 950.00 1900.00 
Photostat 

(8 upon 18 x 24) 765.00 1890.00 3765.00 eae O.O) 
Photo-offset black-— 

and-white (includes 

Maite wine etKten— 144.00 OO 167.00 193.00 
ing) 

Photo-offset half- 

tone (includes sad- 560.00 365.00 569.00 577.00 392.00 418.00 
dle wire stitching) 

PL Cm Lane? Cust eee aad 0 100.48 120.38 147.88 £05.58 
Zinc photoengraving, 

sereened 100 99.70 or 20 147.20 204.70 
Copper photoengrav— 
ing, screened 150 OZR OO ee oO 150). OG ZOR cae) 
Photogelatin 

eolictyre) $50.00 Hon. 00 780.00 LLSORT OO 


photographic material duplicated by a blue-— 
print or bromide-print process. In bind- 
ing his book, he will simply gather the 
illustrative sheets with the typescript 
pages and have them bound in place. 

If the edition is larger, he may 
wish to take advantage of the law of dimin- 
ishing costs in larger editions and to set 
up his book for reproduction by printing, 
photo-offset, or photogelatin. He will 
then wish to decide whether the illustra- 
tive material should be fitted in with the 
text or reproduced as separate pages. The 
variables are so numerous that it will not 
be possible to set forth here the definite 
costs that may be involved in any decision. 

The most important distinction 
must be made between the drawings, which 
are to be done in black and white, and the 
tone pictures, which must be reproduced to 
show the intermediate tones. The next 
most important decision lies between pub-— 
lication of illustrations on separate pag- 
es or on the same pages with the text. 


92 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


TABLE XXXII 


COSTS OF REPRODUCING BOOK OF PICTORIAL MATTER IN 


VARYING PAGE AND PICTURE SIZES 






Page Size Picture Size 
6" xX gq x 6" 

an x 10" x nv 
AOS sce ee gn 
11" x 14" aa 


100 
4" x 6" picture Line cut, zinc 100.38 120.38 147.88 705.68 
Half-—tone, zinc 99.70 19.70 147.20 
Toz.50_| 122.50 | 150.00 


6" x 9" page 


Collotype 450,.00° 555.00 


5" x 7" picture Line cut, zinc LOLS Ly LoL Ly 148.67 206.17 


page 


Bltx LOM 








7" x 9" picture 
10" x 12" page 







ON x LIN picture 
11" x 14" page 


For the drawings the author has two 
choices: he may elect relief printing with 
Zinc line-cuts, or photo-offset from type- 
script. For the toned illustrations, he 
may choose photoengraving with printing, 
photo-offset from typescript with screened 
illustrations, or photogelatin. 

Note that in all these processes 
the stage in book production is reached 
after which the presence of illustrative 
material adds nothing to costs. In the 
printing process this stage does not arrive 
until the entire first cost is met and the 
press is ready to run; in the case of 
photo-offset of drawings, or photogelatin 
of drawings or half tones, the stage is 
reached when the photographic negative is 
trued up; in the case of photo-offset of 
half tones it is reached when the screening 
is completed. The whole process of etching 





Half-tone, zinc 100.47 120.47 147.97 44 
104.20 | 124.20 | 151.70 


Collotype 550.00 885.00 1325.00 2000.00 
Line cut, zine 103.14 123.14 150.64 


Half-—tone, zinc 102.89 122.359 149.89 
108.88 | 128.88 | 155.88 


Collotype 
Line euc. zinc 106.04 126.04 153.54 


Half-tone, zinc 106.39 126.39 153.89 
Nn n" copper EBS. SSeS GINOIZ 
Collotype 1100.00 | L770. 00M e2650200 





No. of Pages at a Time 


a a 


oP iW oO 


Edition of 


250 500 1000 


204.70 
207.50 


780.00 1150.00 


205.47 
209.20 





208.14 















5900.00 


1000.00 1670.00 2550.00 





ce a i care er Eg i ni a a 


211.04 





4000.00 





on metal and fitting metal to type is a 
part of a relief-printing cost, but not of 
a photo-offset or photogelatin cost. 

If the area cost of photogelatin 
work were the same as area cost of photo- 
offset, this process would be indicated for 
all combinations of photographs with text. 
Since the prices for this process are not 
highly standardized, an accurate table in- 
dicating the amount of screened photography 
in relation to the amount of text that 
would make photogelatin the favored proc- 
ess cannot be made. But the conclusion 
will probably stand that if the amount of 
text (i.e., the page area covered by text) 
is small enough in comparison with the area 
covered by pictorial matter, photogelatin 
will stand out as the best technique for 
the reproduction of an illustrated work, 

It must be emphasized again that in 








CHARACTERS NOT IN ROMAN ALPHABET, TABULAR MATTER, DIAGRAMS, ILLUSTRATIONS 98 


_ the Peprocuuctioen of illustrations, as in 
all cases where area costs predominate, the 
costs are increased as the size of the il- 

_lustrations is increased, and diminished as 

their size is diminished. The alternatives 
confronting the author in this case are the 
Same as those which confront him in the re- 
production of the text itself, whether it 
is a reprint of an out-of-print book or a 
typescript book reproduced by photo-offset: 

phe can always cut costs by sacrificing 
size, and with size, beauty and legibility. 

There is another way in which pic- 
torial and textual matter may be combined. 

_The pictorial matter may be separately 
printed and then combined with the textual 
matter in the course of the bookbinding 
process. 

The effect of this method of com-— 
bining text and picture is to convert it 
MiurOuamcunnine cost, for the cost of bind= 
ing varies almost directly with the number 
of copies bound, and the cost of inserting 
extra pictures of sheets while gathering 

the folded pages of a book varies almost 
directly with the number of copies and the 
number of insertions per copy. 

it is not excluded that the author 
should have recourse to microcopying to lay 
illustrative material before his reader. A 

mcext might be issued in an edition of ap- 
propriate size, and the illustrative ma- 
temial to gO wlth 1t reproduced as a strip 

mot film, to be used by projection on a 

mscreen or in a reading machine. The cost 

levels at which such films can be manu- 

»factured and distributed will be discussed 

'in Chapter XII; it need only be noted at 

this point that the technique is at hand, 

and that it might lead to a practice of 
mear more copious pictorial illustrations 

"than the scholarly world has as yet dreamed 

of using. 











Summary 


The reproduction of pictorial mat- 
ter, like the texts, can be accomplished at 
costs varying over a wide range and permit- 
ting sales at normal prices or prices not 
eprcatlveim excess on normaly in editions 
varying through all the ranges of the pos- 
sible scholarly market, from that which is 
presented by the few largest research li- 
braries=.oethiate wiven just talls short of 
the requirements of the commercial publish- 
er. 

That which is usually spoken as the 
Neosu" "or publishing a book, whether wi- 
lustrated or not, whether in ordinary Roman 
characters or mot, is only a vspecial in= 
stance of a great range of possible costs. 
It is usually the cost of applying a relief- 
printing technique to the distribution of 
an intellectual product to a non-commercial 
market. The difference between the prob- 
able income from a full, normal, commercial 
market and the anticipated income from an 
actual scholarly market is usually made up 
as a subsidy to the press, which has made 
no technological concessions to the situa- 
tion. The press publishes as if the book 
were to be sold to 2000-or more buyers and 
asks the sponsors of the publication to re- 
lieve it of the financial consequences of 
proceeding on this fiction. 

True Atos) thatesicholars' areanot 
yet accustomed to books in typescript, il- 
lustrations in blueprint, nor to many of 
the varieties of product that technology 
now pubs abeathiepr disposal. "ii they can 
but accommodate themselves to the new tech- 
niques, important barriers to intellectual 
intercourse can be made to fall. 


94 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


ANALYSIS OF PRODUCTION COSTS OF ILLUSTRATIONS COMBINED WITH TEXT 















Stages in 
Manufacture 
Composition See Chapter 
of Textual III on lLino- 
Matter type or mono- 


type 


Truing up the Illustrative Material: 


er scale. 









TABLE XXXIII 


Text with Line Drawings 


See Chapter V on 
typescript 


This step in the process is common to 


Text with Toned Illustrations 


Printing Photo-offset Printing Photo-offset 


See Chapter III 







on linotype or 
monotype 








i ee 








Photogelatin 


See Chapter V |See Chapter V . 
on typescript jon typescript 











reducing or enlarging photographs to bring them to prop—- 
all techniques. 


The author can assume it 


himself by having all the drawings or photographs in such a size that they can be reproduced 
A discount of 10% to 30% is usually accorded 


in the same degree of enlargement or reduction. 


in quotations on a job that does not call for special truing up of photographs, or one that 
has all photographic work reproduced in size as submitted, or in the same degree of reduction 


or enlargement. 


tones; $4.28 for zinc etchings. 









screening 
of Tllustra— 


tions 


Le ee cee 


Making Photographic Negatives: apart from the screening, 


Screening is 
about 40% of 
the cost of a 
photoengraving 
plate 





This discount applies only to plates which scale at less than $5.62 if half 





Not 
necessary 


Screening proc- 
ess is techni- 
cally identi- 
cal with that 
used in photo- 
engraving; 
prices are not 
so highly 
standardized 
















this element in the process is 


artes are kt ee for all techniques, but trade practice has standardized the use of the wet plate in 
photoengraving, while the photo-offset operators utilize film or paper, which is cheaper. 


Making the Zine line 
Printing cuts, $5.58 
Surface standard 


price for 
one 4" x 6" 
cut 


Setting the 


Printing Sur- 
face in the 


Press 


Make-up more 
eelsheitay alae 
line cuts and 
text fitted 


on same page 


Running Costs: 
text. 





Illustrative mat- 
ter and text re- 
ceive same treat- 
ment in prepara- 
blOnM POM printing 
surface; icost is 
simple area cost. 
See Chapter III 


Illustrative mat— 
ter and text re- 
ceive same treat- 
ment 


Copper plate 
engraving 
$7.55 standard 
price Lora 

4n x 6" cut 


Make-up more 
costly 2f icuts 
and text fit- 
ted on same 
page; make- 
ready more ex- 
pensive in the 
higher screen- 
ings 





Illustrative 
matter and 

text receive 
same treat-— 
ment; trade 


Illustrative 
matter and 
text receive 
same treatment 
in reparation 
of printing has not de- 
surface; cost |veloped the 
is simple area|production of 
cost. See Chap-| typescript 
ter DLL texts with 
photogelatin 
illustrations, 


| 
; 
' 
' 
' 
; 
| 
5 
' 
but there are no 
technological 
obstacles 
Illustrative 
matter and 
text receive 


same treat-— 
ment 


Illustrative 
matter and 
text receive 
same treat-— 
ment 


are not affected by the presence or absence of illustrative material with the 


are the chemical DUD yeOL mLMem ia Des 


