CHAPTER VIII 


A STUDY OF PAPER PERMANENCE 


This chapter has been subjected to criticism by the Bureau of 
Standards, and the Permanence and Durability Committee of the Techni- 


cal Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry. 
tested certain conclusions of the paper as originally submitted 


The latter body con- 
and 


has expressed a wish that the chapter be published as amended by then, 


if it is to be published with their approval. 


Comments and contro- 


versial material, therefore, which had been written in the original 


draft of this chapter and revised out of it, have sometimes been 


in- 


serted here as footnotes; the substance of the chapter as it stands 
without the footnotes has been issued separately as a report of the 
Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry. 


The outstanding qualities required 
of a book paper are four: printing sur- 
face, opacity, strength, and permanence 
and durability. Other qualities of a great 
er or lesser importance are color, feel, 
formation, aesthetic value, etc., depend- 
ing on the purpose for which the paper is 
to be used. The printability, opacity, and 
strength qualities of book paper can be de- 
termined by suitable testing instruments 
and expressed in numerical terms. The 
fourth outstanding quality, namely, perma- 
nence and durability, is not as easily ex- 
pressed. Permanence of a paper has been 
defined as the degree of resistance towards 
the degrading chemical action of the impur- 
ities in the paper or of materials in the 
surrounding air. Durability is the degree 
to which the paper retains its original 
qualities under usage. In a 1984 report 
from the Bureau of Standards,! it was 
broughiteout that important factors im the 
permanence and durability of book papers 
in 
the sheet, and the conditions under which 
the books are kept. Paper from books 
stored in urban institutions is uniformly 
more deteriorated than that from identical 
volumes kept in rural libraries, according 
to the Bureau of Standards investigation. 
The much thumbed-over books in the chil- 
dren's department of the public library 


show the results of wear in use, but there 
is little doubt that the lasting quality of 
paper is not only dependent upon its en- 
vironment but is partly related to the pa- 
per itself. This permanence quality, how- 
ever, is not immediately apparent to the 
observer. The only absolute test of perma- 
nence and durability would require that one 
should wait to see what happens to the pa- 
per in the course of several centuries or 
until there is positive evidence of deteri- 
oration. 

In the days when paper was an in- 
novation in Europe, competing with parch- 
ment, it was regarded as dangerously im- 
permanent, and there was legislation to 
prohibit its use in legal documents. Of 
the books printed in the earlier centuries, 
enough have endured the effect of time to 
establish beyond question the permanence 
possibilities in papers made of the materi- 
als then in use. During the period 1875- 
LOO unpurLpved Toreerude= ta bens uasuciimas 
ground wood, were frequently used in book 
papers. The Bureau of Standards, in its 
report, to which reference has already been 
made, found that book papers containing ap- 
preciable quantities of crude fibers were 
invariably in poorer condition than those 
containing rag and chemical wood fibers. 
The period 1875-1910, therefore, is defined 
as one in which the paper in books published 





1. Arthur E. Kimberly, and Adelaide L. Emley, "A Study of the Deterioriation of Book Papers in Libra- 
ries," Bureau of Standards Miscellaneous Publications, No. 140. 


95 


96 





in this period: may be quite impermanent. 
This served to emphasize the importance of 
the chemical purity of the fibers them- 
selves as a factor in the permanence of pa- 
per. At the beginning of the present cen- 
tury, paper technicians were calling atten- 
tion to the danger of printing on paper 
containing crude fibers, such as ground 
wood pulp. The conclusion was drawn at 
that time that papers had a life expectan- 
cy proportionate to the amount of rag stock 
used in their manufacture.® 

The distributing trade had little 
knowledge concerning the problem of paper 
permanence and durability. The market 
designations of paper ordinarily in use in- 
clude size, weight, color, surface finish, 
and a description of the raw materials from 
which the paper is made. The raw material 
may be described with varying degrees of 
precision. The simplest distinction is 
that which runs between "rag" and "wood 
pulp" papers, and those which contain dif- 
ferent proportions of beth. The rags, how= 
ever, are not of equal quality. The hard- 
est and most durable fibers are the new un- 
bleached cotton trimmings which are bleached 
in the paper mill. Then come the scraps 
left from the manufacture of overalls, "new 
blues;" then the white rags from wornout 
clothing from the housewife's rag bag;° and, 
finally, soiled rags of different colors 
from different sources.* The higher class- 
es of rags require less chemical treatment 
for paper stock and, therefore, yielda more 
permanent paper when carefully manufac-— 
tured. The lower classes of rags usually 
undergo a more drastic chemical treatment 
before being converted to paper and do not 
yield as strong or as permanent a paper, 
although for many purposes it may possess 
other more desirable properties.° The wood 
used in paper making is also subject to 
various classifications: there is the dis— 
tinction between the soft (coniferous) 
woods and the hard (deciduous) woods. Then 
there are different processes by which the 
wood is converted into pulp to receive con- 
sideration. First, there is the important 
distinction between "mechanical wood pulp" 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MAT&RIALS 





(groundwood) and "chemical wood pulp." 
Newsprint paper, for instance, is chiefly 
mechanical wood pulp; most book paper is 7 
made of chemical wood pulp. By different 
kinds of chemical treatment the impurities 


in the wood are removed and a fiber of rel- 


atively high purity, compared to a mechani- 
eal wood pulp fiber, is obtained." "Soda 
pulp" is made by digesting wood chips in 
an alkaline solution, such as sodium hy- 
droxide, and is composed of fibers from 
hard woods. "Sulphite pulp," on the other 
hand, is made chiefly from soft woods by 
digesting the wood chips in a solution of 
sulfurous acid and calcium bisulphite. The 
fibers generally possess different proper- 
ties compared to those made by the soda 
process owing to their difference of-ori- 
gin. Recently certain additional processes 
giving further purification to chemical 
wood pulps have appeared. 

Within the past decade or so; some 
paper users have become dissatisfied with 
the more or less crude paper specifications 
and have begun to introduce laboratory pro- 
cedures in standardizing their paper pur- 
chases. The distributing trade has not 
followed this line of development, however; © 
its interests have been heavily vested in 
the existing trade practices. Recently 
some of the larger users of papers, who 
could establish direct contact with the 
manufacturers, began to demand and to re- 
ceive "specification papers." It is re= 


/ 


a 


Py 


ported that about 1% of the finer paper | 
trade in 1928 was on a-laboratory specifica— 
tion basis, and that 
to 10%. 

The specifications which were most 
successfully established were those relat-— 


by 1933 this had risen 7 


5 


ing to the physical strength qualities of ' 


the paper. 


Standard physical tests were i 


tearing resistance, bursting strength, ten= i 


sile strength, and folding endurance. For ~ 
nearly ten years government specifications 
for permanent all-rag content papers have 
carried requirements as to the grade of new 
rag permitted. In addition, limits as to 
rosin size and acidity have also been in- 
cluded. Specifications relating to 





2. Despite the fact that the very oldest paper of all-—the early Chinese--seems to have been made from 


grass fibers. 
o. 'No. 1 old rags." 
4a) Note 2) old rags! 


5. A paper made directly from raw cotton was being developed in 1934 by one paper company in America. 
Ramie grass fibers are proposed as another paper-—making material, but the writer knows of no firm ac-— 


tually using then. 


A STUDY OF PAPER PERMANENCE 


probable longevity of a paper were not so 
easily set up but progress is being made in 
that direction. 

The librarians seem to have been 
the ones who showed the first and greatest 
desire for permanence in book papers, but 
they were in a bad strategic position for 
making their desires effective. They were 
many times removed from the paper manufac- 
turers; they had little influence on the 
publishers and none on the paper distribu- 
tors. The British Library Association set 
up a committee which drew up some perma- 
nence specifications for paper. In general, 
however, the paper trade continued to sell 
its goods as "100% rag," "50% rag," or 
"Sulphite" and induced the buyer to believe 
that the more he paid, the greater was the 
probable longevity of the paper. 

When the laboratory men began to 
work on paper specifications, not only was 
the source of the fiber studied but its 
chemical and physical qualities were ex- 
amined. The most important material com- 
prising the fibers used in papermaking is 
the organic substance known as cellulose, 
the cell wall of the plant, and its chemi- 
cal properties are essentially the same 


' whether it is found in the cottonseed hair, 


cornstalks, or trees, whether it goes to 
the paper mill as a discarded shirt or a 
spruce log. In all papers cellulose is the 
basic ingredient, although there is a big 
difference in the structure of different 
fibers and this is an important character- 
istic in papermaking. Furthermore, associ- 
ated with cellulose in the crude or unpuri- 
fied fiber, there are often undesirable sub- 
stances, called impurities, which are re- 
moved by chemical treatment as already in- 
dicated. These impurities vary in nature 
and in amount, depending on the source of 
the fiber. Ordinary pulp wood is composed 
of over 50% cellulosic material and "impur- 
ities" to the extent of about 30%. When 
newsprint paper is made by grinding logs 
into mechanical wood pulp, all the "impur- 
ities" or undesirable substances go into 
the paper. Raw cotton, on the other hand, 


_ represents a fiber containing about 90% 


ty 


cellulose and a minimum of "impurities." 


a7 


Tests which are often used to de- 
termine the purity and quality of the fi- 
bers composing a paper are: acidity, siz- 
ing, alpha cellulose, and copper number. In 
general, there is agreement among paper 
technologists that the acidity and the ros- 
in sizing should be kept low for a perma- 
nent paper. The alpha cellulose content of 
a paper refers to that portion of the cellu- 
lose which is not soluble in a solution of 
sodium hydroxide under certain defined con- 
ditions.6 These are entirely empirical con- 
ditions however. The alkali-resistant or 
alpha cellulose content of the cellulose 
portion of a paper is presumably proportion- 
ate to the fiber purity, a high percentage 
alpha cellulose value being desirable for a 
permanent paper. The copper number is also 
indicative of fiber purity, the higher the 
number the greater the degree of damage to 
the fibers. Other tests which have been 
used in specifying book papers for perma- 
nent records are: ash, folding endurance, 
bursting strength, opacity, weight, and 
thickness. No single test can be consid- 
ered at the present time as an adequate 
criterion of paper permanency. Even the 
lists of tests, mentioned above, yield a 
not too satisfactory picture of the proba- 
ble life expectancy of a paper as far as 
purity of the sheet is concerned. Other 
tests which may become more reliable in- 
dices of paper permanence are now in the 
process of development. 

Paper manufactured from the highest 
grade of cotton rags receives the minimum 
of treatment. The raw material itself is 
of a very high degree of purity and, care- 
fully processed, yields from known experi- 
ence a paper of very great permanence and 
durability. Such papers possess an alpha 
cellulose content well over 90% and « cop- 
per number considerably less than 1.0. Low- 
er grade rags and chemical wood pulps re- 
quire more severe treatment in their isola- 
tion or purification before being converted 
to paper. Ordinary processes of making 
chemical wood pulp do not yield a product 
with 90% alpha cellulose content. Purifi- 
cation processes are now available, how- 
ever, whereby the alpha cellulose content 


6. Alpha cellulose can be separated from its bad relatives, beta and gamma cellulose, by giving the fibers 


a bath in caustic soda. 


gamma cellulose. 
cellulose, the white hope of paper chemistry. 


Some of the cellulose of the fibers will be dissolved into a liquid. 
the liquid can then be jellied--this is beta cellulose. 
But. the pure, strong cellulose resists the action of the caustic soda. 


Some of 
Some of the liquid refuses to jell--this is 
It is alpha 


98 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





of such pulps, referred to as "alpha pulps," 
approaches that of the better grades of cot- 
ton rags.! 

When purified, chemical wood pulps 
have proven very satisfactory for certain 
papers and as a substitute for certain 
grades of rags. With our increasing knowl- 
edge of paper, its raw materials and manu- 
facture, the future may provide a more per- 
manent paper made from a greater variety of 
materials. 


Proposed Classification and Specifications 


for Permanent Book Papers 


(1) Classification of Book Papers Rela- 
tive to Their Permanence Qualities® 


A system of classification of 
printing and writing papers relative to 
their permanence qualities has been suggest- 
ed by the United States Bureau of Stand- 
ards.? Mr. B. W. Scribner, of the Bureau 
of Standards, proposed that the ingredients 
to be specified be a percentage of alpha 
cellulose, and he suggested, as an addi- 
tional innovation, an accelerated aging test 
om "Stability" specification. Underlying 
this test is the assumption that paper de- 
terioration is a chemical action which can 
be accelerated by the influence of heat. 
Paper samples of known alpha cellulose con- 
tent, chemical purity, and physical strength 
are subjected to oven heat for seventy-two 
hours at 100° C., and then tested for loss 
of chemical and physical qualities. The 
loss is expressed as a percentage. Maks 
classification is based upon the purity and 
strength of the finished paper. The values 
given are derived from the results of the 
extensive investigations of the Bureau dur- 
ing the past four years into the permanence 
of paper. In these investigations, tests 
Similar to the ones described here have 
been made on a large number and variety of 
papers, and it is believed that papers ful- 











filling the requirements of the various 
groups will have the relative degrees 
permanence indicated.1l0 

Invthis systenvor classi ivcautom, 
all papers are divided into four classes. 
The first class contains those papers which 
may be expected to have maximum longevity. 
A book paper fulfilling the requirements of 
this class would be particularly suitable 
for bound volumes of records having perma- 
nent value. The second class contains pa- 
pers of high purity. Papers used for semi- 
permanent records and in fine editions of 
rare and costly books should fulfill the. 
requirements of this class. The thirdclass 
is composed of papers which, while not hav-— 
ing as high a degree of purity as those in 
the first two classes, have a fair degree 
of purity. Such papers could be used where 
moderate longevity is desired, such as in 
reference periodicals. Papers in the fourth 
class are those suitable for current use 
only.t1 Table XXXIV, on the following 
pages, illustrates in detail how such a sys-— 
tem of classification might be applied to 
book papers. 


(2) Specifications of the Joint Commit- 
t 4,12 


ec on Printing US Sue Geverimmemi. 


Government specifications for perma- 
nent papers antedate all other similar 
specifications in this country by several 
years. 


of 


The paper must be made with every 
precaution to insure the maximum serviice- 
ability and permanency. Care must be taken 
to use the minimum quantities of bleach, 
rosin, size, and alum. The finished paper 
must not show the presence of any injurious 
residual chemicals which will interfere in 
any way with the permanency of color or -: 
the serviceability and durability of the 
paper. 


7. The Brown Company, pulp manufacturers of Berlin, New Hampshire, have developed some of these refining 


processes and have put their highly purified pulp on the market as "solka fiber." 


Paper chemists are 


not certain as to how far such highly purified wood pulps can displace rag fibers as an ingredient for 


permanent papers. 
pap 


The Brown Company sponsored a study of this problem at the Bureau of Standards. 


8. Taken from John 0. Burton, "Permanence Studies of Commercial Book Paper," Bureau of Standards Journal 


of Research, 7, 437-9 (1931). 


9. B. W. Scribner, "Permanence Standards for Printing and Writing Papers," LII, 19, pp. 52-5 (May-August, 
1930); also Paper Mill, LIII, p. 13, June 21, 1930. 


10. 
ete 


The full text of the Scribner-Burton specifications is in the Appendix at the end of this Chapter. 
It should be noted here that an additional "stability" specification is included for Class I papers: 


that alpha cellulose content should not decrease more than 1.5%, folding endurance more than 25%, and 
copper number should not increase more than .05%,after the paper is heated 72 hours at 100° ¢c, 


le. Issue of December 8, 1932, p. 15. 


an ta =, 


A STUDY OF PAPER PERMANENCE 99 





TABLE XXXIV 


eal 


CLASSIFICATION OF BOOK PAPERS 


Class I. Papers of Maximum Purity for Permanent Records 


Stock: Free from unbleached or groundwood fibers 

Alpha cellulose: Not less than 90% 

Copper number: Not more than 1.5 

Acidity: pH value not less than 4.5 and acid number less than 25 

Rosin: Not more than 1.0% 

Stability: When heated for 72 hours at 100° C. the alpha cellulose content shall de- 
crease not more than 1.5%, the folding endurance shall decrease not more than 25%, 
and the copper number shall increase not more than 0.5 

Weight, Strength and Opacity: 


Weight: (25 x 40,500)--pounds 35 40 50 60 70 
Weight: (25 x 38,500)--pounds 55.5 38.0 AP.5 BO 66.5 
Folding endurance: Average each direc- 

tion, not less than double folds iD 100 2D 160 200 
Bursting strength: Average not less 

than--points 20 Ao 50 55 40 
Thickness: Average--inch 0.0035 0.0040 0.0050 0.0060 0.0060 


Tensile breaking strength 
Average not less than kg. per 15 mm. 


width 

Machine direction 4.0 bre) 6.0 ie) 8.0 

Across direction Bio Bae) 5.0 Stee 4.0 
Opacity: Contrast ratio not less than--% 84 86 89 90 90 


Color, finish, formation and printing quality 
Shall be in accordance with sample 


Class II. Papers of High Purity for Semi-Permanent Records 


Stock: Free from unbleached or groundwood fibers 
Alpha cellulose: Not less than 80% 
Copper number: Not more than 2.0 
maAcidity: pH value not less than 4.5 and acid number less than 25 
' Rosin: Not more than 1.5% 
Weight, Strength and Opacity: 


™ Weight: (25 x 40,500)--pounds 35 40 50 60 70 
» Weight: (25 9x S6,500)=—-pounds 55.5 38.0 47.5 iveslO 66.5 
f Folding endurance: Average each direc-— 
tion, not less than double folds 50 40 60 80 LOO 
Bursting strength: Average not less 
than--points ae 14 ils! Re 26 
Thickness: Average--inch 0.0030 0.0045 0.0045 0.0050 0.0050 


Tensile breaking strength: 
Average not less than kg. per 15 mm. 


width 

Machine direction S10 Sa) 4.0 Bret: om 

Across direction os 1.5 230 225 3.0 
Opacity: Contrast ratio not less than--% 84 86 89 90 90 






Color, finish, formation and printing quality: 
Shall be in accordance with sample 


"Testing Methods: The testing methods shall be those approved by the Technical Associa- 
tion of the Pulp and Paper Industry. The physical specifications are for a relative 
humidity of 65% and a temperature of Oe F., which are the testing conditions approved 
by this Association. 


100 METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


Class I[1l. Papers of tairsPurivy stor Records Requiring 
Moderate Longevity 





Stock: Free from unbleached or groundwood fibers | 
Alpha cellulose: Not less than 70% 

Copper number: Not more than 3.5 

Acidity: pH value not less than 4.5 and acid number less than 25 
Rosin: Not more than 2.0% 

Weight, Strength and Opacity: 


Weight: (25 x 40,500)--pounds 55 40 50 60 70 
Weight: (25 x 38,500)--pounds 55.5 58.0 47.5 Diigo 66.5 
Folding endurance: Average each direc- 

tion, not less than double folds LS 20 50 40 50 
Bursting strength: Average not less 

than--points as ee ID. 19 Ae 
Thickness: Average--inch 0.0025 0.0080 0.0033 0.0040 2 020059 


Tensile breaking strength: ' 
Average not less than kg. per 15 mm. ' | 








width 
Machine direction Boe! 5.0 one Die) 4.0 
Across direction eo Les Bao) eo Lao 
Opacity: Contrast ratio not less than | 
--% 84 86 89 90 90 
Color, tinish, formation snd printing qualiicy: 
Shall be in accordance with sample 
; 
Class IV. Papers for Temporary Use 
Stock, Acidity and Rosin: No requirements 
Weight, Strength and Opacity: 
Weight: (25 x 40,500)--pounds os 40 50 60 70 
Weight: (25 x 38,500)--pounds Sonn 38.0 47.5 57.0 66.5 
Bursting strength: 
Average not less than--points © 10 a 14 ai 
Thickness: Average--inch OmoOe5 0.0080 0.0033 0.0040 0.0050 


Tensile breaking strength: 
Average not less than kg. per 15 mm. 
width-- 
Machine direction 3 
Across direction ne 
Opacity: Contrast ratio not less than 
=a 84 86 89 90 90 
Color, finish, formation and printing quality: 
Shall be in accordance with sample 


a 






a0 5.0 
5 les 





tion of the Pulp and Paper Industry. The physical specifications are for a relative 
humidity of 65% and a temperature of 70 F,, which are the testing conditions approved 


: 

S 

: 

, 
Testing Methods: The testing methods shall be those approved by the Technical Associa- : 
by this Association. . 





A STUDY OF PAPER PERMANENCE 


LOL 





Stock: 100% new rags, white, cream or unbleached 
Ash: Not to exceed 15% 
Acidity: pH value not less than 5.0 
Sizing: Rosin not to exceed 1.0% 
Weight: gD x 63, 10,000 Lbs. 90 +40 
Folding En- 

durance: Average, each direction not less than 

double folds 75 150 

Bursting 

strength: Average not less than points AO 40 
Thickness: Average inch 0.0040 Omooow 
Opacity: Not less than % 86 90 


Color, Finish, Formation, and Cleanliness: 


standard sample. 


Note: 


Deliveries must conform to the 


The physical specifications of the Government Printing Office are based 


on tests carried out at a relative humidity of 50% and a temperature of 


TOC we. 


The Paper Trade and the Proposed Specifica- 


tions 
The interest of the paper trade in 


_ specifications is recent and welcome. Tech- 





- judgment on permanence specifications, 





nical knowledge is far ahead of the market 
conditions. Some of the conclusions of pa- 
per technologists are in satisfactory agree- 
ment and can be used safely as a guide by 
publishers in search of permanent paper. 
However, on entering the market to buy pa- 
per, the publisher discovers that the dis-— 
tributing trade is not accustomed to the 
use of even the minimum specifications upon 
which there is agreement. 

The Rag Paper Division of the Writ- 
ing Paper Manufacturers! Association has 
suggested tentatively some specifications, 
which are set forth in a comparative table 
at the end of this chapter; but for a final 
cia 
awaits the conclusion of the experimental 
work in progress. 

A test made at the Bureau of Stand- 


ards confirms the fact that a purchaser who 


merely specifies a percentage of rag con- 
tent in a book paper has no assurance that 
he is paying for permanence quality. Thus 
is the importance of careful specifications 


| brought out. 


A list of the book papers investi- 
gated by John Burtonlé is herewith tabulat- 
ed (Table XXXV, on the following page) with- 
the proposed permanence classification in- 
dicated in each case. This is based on 
chemical and physical tests on the papers. 
For this proposed classification, see an 
earlier portion of this chapter.14 Accord- 
ing to this classification system only one 
of the twenty-eight papers studied could 
qualify as a permanent and durable paper, 
but several were only slightly deficient. 
The importance of careful processing of fi- 
bers was emphatically brought out as a re- 
sult of this investiscation., — Avtdiber tor 
initial high quality may have its purity 
seriously lowered by improper processing, 
and fibers of much lower original purity 
may be purified to a high degree by proper 
treatment. 

These data serve to bring out the 
importance of careful specifications in the 
matter of permanent and durable book pa- 
pers, no single test or specifications be- 
ing adequate. 


Conclusions for the Paper Buyer 
'It is easy to understand why ordi- 


nary market book papers, whether of rag, 





15. John 0. Burton, "Permanence Studies of Current Commercial Book Papers," Bureau of Standards Journal 
of Research, VII (1931), 429-39. 
14. These tests were made in 1920; the manufacturers since that time have probably improved their prod- 


ucts. 
posed the following absurd specifications: 


But some advertising is still misleading. 
50 to 100 years, 100% rag; 35 to 50 years, 75% rag; 15 to 


The writer has seen advertising matter which pro- 


35 years, 50% rag; 5 to 15 years, 25% rag; 3 to 5 years, sulphite. 


102 


Sample 
No. 


CONG TO) Oe a CN) ee 


WW Ww WM DW DEPP FP FP FP 
De a on FF wast GW mt Ho 


CN WN 
@ 


40 
41 
45 


46 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


TABLE XXXV 


BOOK PAPERS AND PROPOSED PERMANENCE CLASSIFICATIONS 





Description of Materials Used in Manufacture 
as Furnished by Manufacturers 


New cotton rags, 85%, and new linen rags, 15% rosin 
sized 

Chemical wood pulp containing some highly purified 
wood pulp; rosin sized, clay filled 

Bleached cotton fiber, 75%, and bleached sulphite 
pulp, 25%; sized with 24 rosin and alum 

Bleached sulphite pulp, 50%, and unbleached sul- 
phite pulp, 50%; rosin sized 

Same as No. 2, except highly purified wood pulp was 
replaced with an equal amount of cotton linters 

Rag fiber, 50%, and sulphite pulp, 50%; rosin sized, 
clay filled 

Rag fiber, 85%, and sulphite pulp 15%; rosin sized, 
clay filled 

White, uncooked rags, 100%, rosin sized 

Rag fiber, "twos and blues" grade, 55%, and chemi- 
cal wood pulp, 45%; rosin sized, clay filled 

Rag fiber, "twos and blues" grade, 50%, and chemi- 
cal wood fiber, 50%; rosin sized, clay filled 

Bleached chemical wood pulp, 100%, rosin sized, 
Gila Viena ked 

Rag fiber, "twos and blues" grade, 100%; rosin 
sized, clay filled 

Rag fiber, "No. 1 White" grade, 100%; rosin sized, 
clay filled 

Rag fiber, "No. 2 White" grade, 100%; rosin sized 

Rag fiber, "No. 2 White" grade, 100%; rosin sized 

White linen and cotton rags, 100%; rosin sized 

Rag fiber, 50%, and bleached chemical wood pulp, 
50%; rosin sized, clay filled 

Bleached chemical wood pulp, 100%; rosin sized, 
clay filled 

Rag fiber, 100% rosin sized; used for permanent 
editions of newspapers and periodicals 

Rag fiber, 50%, and bleached chemical wood pulp, 
50%; rosin sized, clay filled 

Bleached chemical wood pulp, 100%; double-coated 
book paper 

Rag fiber, 50%, and bleached chemical wood pulp, 
50%; double-coated paper 

New rags, 100%; rosin sized 

"No. 1 White" grade of rags, 37.5%, "thirds and 
blues" grade of rags, 37.5%, and sulphite wood 
pulp, 25%,) rodin "Sized Wclayatilied 

Rag fiber, 50%, bleached chemical wood pulp, 50%; 
FOsin sized, ~clayar tiled 

Rag fiber, 50%, and bleached chemical wood pulp, 
50%; double-coated book paper 

New white and cream rags, 100%; TOSine Ze Orel ns 
paper was manufactured especially with a view to 
permanence 

Same as paper No. 45, but from a different de- 
livery 


% Permanence 
Chemical] Classifica- 
tion 


leis 
ce 
ret 

Vi 
esieale 
Ce 


alee 
CEE 


LV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
LY 
IV 
DE 
Teel 
IV 
IV 
Tsk 
ah 
LTE 


Lt 


If 
TLE 
LTd 


ils 


elt 





ee ell 


-manence of a paper. 


A STUDY OF PAPER PERMANENCE 


chemical wood pulp, or mixture, should not 
be permanent papers; and emphasis has been 
on beauty and printability rather than on 
permanence and durability. Paper technolo- 
gists have the formulae for papers which 
would satisfy the demand for permanence but 
such a demand has not been large enough to 
control market practices. The lack of 
agreement over specifications has made it 
difficult for the buyers who want perma- 
nence to exert their full weight in the 
market, and the small buyer can have lit- 
tle influence even if he knows what he 
wants unless he happens to want a stock 
commodity. 

A number of specifications are in- 
cluded in an appended chart which gives, in 
addition, the properties and approximate 
prices of certain all-rag or purified chem 
ical wood pulp papers, actually or poten- 
tially available. 

How are these specifications to be 
interpreted? The paper technologists quick 
ly draw the layman beyond his depth in the 
discussion, but a few facts stand out as 
agreed or uncontested, and upon these the 
publisher may safely base his policy. 


(1) Fiber Content of Highest Class Pa- 


pers 

It is always insufficient to speci- 
fy merely a source of the fibers, as, for 
instance, "rag" or "50% rag." Now only 
should the quality of the fiber be speci- 
fied but specifications covering the manu- 
factured paper should be carefully drawn. 
These should include ash content, acidity, 
rosin sizing, alpha cellulose, copper num- 
ber, folding endurance, bursting strength, 
and perhaps other tests depending on the 
use requirements of the sheet. No one or 
two tests alone, any more than the source 
of the fiber, can entirely define the per- 
For instance, some of 
the new fillers now being used in book pa- 
pers will give a high false copper number 
without any other indication of imperma- 
nence. Others believe that a low alpha 
cellulose of rags which have been properly 
purified is not an index of impermanence. 
It is natural that the more information we 
have concerning the properties of a paper, 
the more can we judge of its general qual- 
ity and usability for the purposes we have 
in mind. 

Although it is admitted that there 








103 


is no general agreement on the specifica- 
tions necessary for a permanent paper made 
from fibers other than the highest grade of 
rags, the dealers and even the buying pub- 
lic in general have been slow to realize 
the need for and the significance of a per- 
manent book paper. When the buyers specify 
these superior properties in a paper, the 
manufacturers will quote prices consistent 
with the specifications and the desired 
product will be delivered. It lies with 
the buying public to assist the manufactur- 
ers to keep pace with the findings of the 
paper technologists. 


(2) Fiber Content of Second-Class Papers 
Price becomes a leading considera- 

tion among the less permanent papers, and 
specifications do not have to be as rigid 
as with the first-class papers. Thus, in 
the Burton classification for book papers 
of high purity for semi-permanent records, 
the chemical and physical constants are ex- 
tended considerably beyond those for book 
papers of maximum purity for permanent rec-— 
ords. The buyer should test and carefully 
check to specifications all papers before 
use in order to be sure he is getting his 
full money value. Again, no single test 
should be used as a criterion of the perma- 
nence quality of the paper under considera-— 
tion. 


(3) Ground or Mechanical Wood Pulp 
No groundwood or mechanical wood 
pulp should be present in any paper de- 
signed for anything more than temporary use. 


(4) Acidity 
It is undisputed that high acidity 


causes rapid deterioration of paper. Acidi- 
ty is measured in two ways: the acid num- 
ber is determined by volumetric analysis 

and indicates the amount of acid present, 
while the pH value is a measure of the hy- 
drogen-ion concentration or strength of the 
acid. A paper testing pH 4.5, for instance, 
is about 450 times more acid than one test— 
ing pH 6 and is more likely to become de- 
graded on this account. 


(5) Sizing Material 
The presence of large amounts of 


rosin as a sizing material in paper is like- 
ly to bring about a discoloration or yellow- 
ing in papers on aging. There is general 


104 


agreement that the rosin content of perma-— 
nent papers should be kept low, probably 
below 1%. 


(6) Fillers or Loading Materials 

There is not complete agreement as 
to the significance of mineral fillers for 
permanent and durable papers. Too much ma- 
terial will probably reduce the durability 
of the sheet, but a small amount of the 
proper filler does no harm in the opinion 
of many paper technologists. 


The Influerce of Price 

The paper buyer can be sure that 
any of these permanence specifications are 
better than none; they emphasize different 
elements of the paper, but they all agree 
in guiding the purchaser away from papers 
which have been manufactured (as many book 
papers are manufactured) without taking 
into account any permanence requirements 
whatsoever. 

The publisher who is using small 
quantities of paper stands two steps re- 
moved from the manufacturers. The trade is 
organized to distribute paper from manufac- 
turer to jobber or dealer and from there to 
printer. In some cases the manufacturing 
process is divided, one firm making the 
pulp and another the paper. Since the qual- 
ities which give a paper its permanence are 
due in large measure to the manufacture and 
processing of the pulp, it is especially 
desirable that the buyer should make a spe- 
cial effort to secure paper conforming to 
permanence specifications. 

If he enters the market with some 
permanence specifications he will probably 
find his printer, and the printer's jobber, 
unequipped with any tested papers. He may 
have to work his way back to the manufac-— 
turer. He will find that paper is sold 
normally in 500-pound cases, but that manu- 
facturers will often make a special run of 
paper for an order as small as 1 ton (4 
cases). The manufacturing and selling mits 
are case, ton and carload (15-18 tons). The 
trade is familiar with the practice by 
which price drops as the size of the order 
increases to the carload; these price vari- 
ations are of use in interpreting compara- 
tive pricing of paper, but of the greatest 
importance because they constitute an in- 
dex of the size of order which will have 
sufficient importance to induce a manufac- 








METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


turer to conform to permanence specifica- 
tions. 

The Joint Committee on Materials 
for Research has found some firms willing 
to have their paper quoted in terms of a 
price index. If "normal," i.e., low-cost 
book paper is $.08 a pound, then these pa- 
pers would be sold at the prices listed in 
the table. The Rag Paper Division of the 
Writing Paper Manufacturers! Association 
advises that if the base price is $.08, the 
price of a permanent paper meeting their 
specifications should be $.32. The prices 
named in connection with Government Print- 
ing Office specifications are those actual- 
ly bid in 1932. It must be observed that 
this relationship in prices prevails: the 
"offset book" paper (not for permanent use) 
was bought at less than $.04, and the "per- 
manent record book" paper at over $.16. It 
is evident, therefore, that large quantity 
orders and competitive bidding can reduce 
prices greatly, but the ratio between 
prices of papers of different qualities is 
not radically changed. 

Under normal trade conditions the 
trade mark-ups and discounts should permit 
price variations in the following scale: 

(A paper selling at $.05 a pound, i.e., 
$10.00 a case in 21/2 tonelorc 


Price from Manufacturer to Distributor 
Price per Case in Lots of: 


1 case 1) ton 24 tons 5 tons 18 tons 
(4 cases) (carloads) 
$11.00 $10.50 $10.00 $9.70 $9.50 


The distributor's mark-up would range from 
$1.60 in the one-case lots to an extreme 
low of $.50 to $,95 im carlosd Tots. The 
printer's mark-up should be anything from 
10% to 25% of what he pays the dealer. 
These mark-ups do not constitute an exces-— 
sive charge for the distributing service 
offered, nor do they greatly increase pub- 
LiVShiin gC Ose. 

How does paper cost figure into ' 
book cost? Paper is sold by the pound; a © 
standard size of sheet is) 25") x 733"; the 
weight of the paper is usually given as 
that of) S00ssheets m2 >! exe SS oaie Comma 
sheet of this paper will print 24 pages, 
8" x 9 1/2", a ream will supply paper for 











A STUDY OF PAPER PERMANENCE 


105 





38 copies. Paper weighing 45 pounds to the 
ream--a good stout book paper weight, as 
the paper samples indicate--will make up a 
600-page book weighing a little over one 
pound. The difference between the highest 
and the lowest paper prices would not come 
to more than $.30 a volume, or less than 
10% of the cost of an edition of 300. If 
the edition is small, the use of the most 
expensive paper need not greatly increase 
the price of the book, but may greatly in- 
crease its utility. 

But most book manufacturing-—-prac-— 
tically all commercial book manufacturing 
---calls for larger editions, in which the 
eomposition and press charge is distributed 
over more copies, and the paper cost there- 
fore proportionately higher. Moreover, the 
economics of the publishing business re- 
quire that each book shall be printed in an 
edition larger than that for which there is 
immediate and certain sale. The chance of 
selling some of the overprint affords the 
prospect of profit. But the storage of un- 
sold volumes increases the paper cost which 
must be borne by the volumes actually sold. 
If in an edition of 1000 books, weighing 
one pound each, the cost of paper is in- 
creased $.07 a pound (from $.07 to $.14) 
the increased cost levied upon the purchas- 
er need not be more than $.07 a volume if 
the whole edition is sold; but if only 250 
copies are sold, the ratable portion of the 
added paper cost which each must bear rises 
'to $.28. It is the storage of valuable pa- 
_ per in unsold books that makes it so cost- 
ly to use high-priced paper in commercial 
publishing. And therefore, two policies 
open out before those who would improve the 
' lasting quality of books. 

The first is the policy followed by 
_the New York Times: publication in two ed- 
_itions; one a small edition, for relatively 
certain sale, printed on expensive rag pa- 
_per of high durability and permanence; the 
- other an edition for temporary consumption. 
) But the publishers assert that in commer- 
cial publishing such a policy would intro- 
duce many new costs, not only on the press, 
mout in storing and filling orders. The 

_ American Library Association favors the ap- 
Mplication of this policy to government doc- 
' uments. 


The second policy is that which 
will be practicable as rag, purified chemi- 
cal wood pulp or other papers at moderate 
prices prove to have satisfactory lasting 
qualities. The permanence level of all 
book papers can be raised, without greatly 
increasing prices. A basic economic argu- 
ment'helps at this point. The carefully 
manufactured rag papers with alpha cellu- 
lose content up to 97% can be manufactured 
to be more durable than a paper that mere- 
ly passes the proposed Burton Class I tests. 
But it cannot be widely used in the publish- 
ing industry because of cost; its useful- 
ness will lie in the small editions which 
do not threaten to leave their makers with 
a great bulk of expensive paper unsold on 
the shelves. The improvement of permanence 
qualities in the normal product of the pub- 
lishing trade must depend upon the develop- 
ment of less expensive papers. The buyer 
must be induced to demand what the techni- 
cians are able to make, a rag or purified 
chemical wood pulp paper manufactured for 
permanence, and sold at a moderate price. 


Preservation of Old Newsprint Paper 

Whatever improvement in standards of 
manufacture and choice of paper may be an- 
ticipated, it cannot affect the fifty 
years! legacy of inferior paper that has 
already been used and that now stands on 
our library shelves in imminent peril of 
dissolution. Newsprint paper is especially 
vulnerable. Can it be saved? 

The Bureau of Standards reached a 
certain point in devising a method of press-— 
ing sheets of cellulose acetate into the 
newsprint fiber in such a way that the air 
was excluded and tremendous folding endur- 
ance developed. This process required no 
adhesives. The New York Public Library 
protects some of its newspaper files by 
covering both sides of the sheets with Jap- 
anese tissue paper, then smoothing them by 
running them through a heated mangle. This 
process has been used by the New York Pub- 
Ce Gal pnaraven snc mh O.emmGe 2.) Dela vanincmCees 
creased somewhat, but the library feels 
that its experience indicates that this dis- 
advantage is offset by the increased 
strength and lengthened span of life of the 
DapeU ee LheMecOSst Ore chi smeprocess sels 





15. The University of California Press applies it to scientific publications, printing 25 copies on a rag 
stock conforming to U. S. Government Printing Office specifications for highest permanence (see chart). 








"approximately $.08 a sheet, or $.04 a page. 
emis of the New York Public Library 
product is bound herewith. Dr. Joseph 
 Broadman of New York City has developed a 






parent layer over each newsprint surface. 
Fs It is possible that the preserva- 
nt tion of the newspaper records will not be 
feasible by way of the preservation of the 
mpaper, and it may be that the files print— 
ed on the most impermanent stock can be 









ting the originals disappear. This prob- 















nection with the cost levels of microcopy- 
ing on film. The question has already re- 
meceived some attention in Chapter III as a 
_ special case of reprinting material by 

es photo-offset. 


APPENDIX 


cs The following material was not ap- 

proved by the Technical Association of the 

Pulp and Paper Industry, but is printed 

S herewith, not as a part of the discussion 

carried above, but as supplementary infor- 

mation offered subject to the layman's 

medualms as to its accuracy. 

bs The Scribner-Burton specifications 
are as follows: 


EXCERPT FROM PAPER BY B. W. SCRIBNER, 
BUREAU OF STANDARDS, ON PERMANENCE 
STANDARDS FOR PAPER 


In consideration of both usage 
of papers and the grades of papers 
available, it is suggested that they 
might be classified in four main 
groups according to their degree of 
cellulose and non-cellulose purity, 
as related to their service require- 
ments. According to such mode of 
classification, the present domestic 
printing and writing papers may be 
grouped as follows: 


Grade I. Permanent papers, having a 
maximum degree of purity; free from 
unbleached fibers, and highly ligni- 
fied fibers such as groundwood. In- 
dicative chemical properties: alpha 
cellulose, 90%; copper number, 1.5; 
rosin, 1%; acidity, 5 pH; changes on 


similar plan for pasting a protective trans- 


_ preserved only by film-copying them and let- 


lem will be discussed in Chapter XI in con- 





heating 72 hours ne ioe Seca 
in content of alpha-cellulose should 
be not more than 1.5%, decrease in 
folding endurance not more than 25%, 
increase in copper number not more 
than 0.5. 


Grade II. Papers quite highly puri- 
fied that may be expected to have a 
minimum life of 100 years; free from 
unbleached fibers, and highly ligni- 
fied fibers such as groundwood. Indi- 
cative chemical properties: alpha 
cellulose, 80%; copper number, 2.5; 
rosin, 165%;. acidity, voeots 


Grade III. Papers having a fair de- 
gree of purity that may be expected 
to have a minimum life of 50 years; 
free from unbleached fibers and high- 
ly lignified fibers such as ground- 
wood. Indicative chemical proper- 
ties: alpha cellulose, 70%; copper 
number, 53; rosin, 2%; acidity, 5 pH. 


Grade IV. Papers having a low degree 
of purity containing considerable or- 
ganic impurities, suitable for cur= 
rent use only. This grade includes 
papers containing unbleached fibers, 
and highly lignified fibers such as 
groundwood. 


All figures for chemical com- 
ponents in these grade descriptions 
are upper limits, except for alpha 
cellulose contents which are lower 
limits. Alpha cellulose content and 
copper number are based on total cel- 
lulose content. 

As stated in these grade de- 
scriptions, the purity limits are 
given merely as indicative and are 
not suggested as specification re- 
quirements, for the fixing of specifi- 
cation details must necessarily be 
done by the consumers and manufactur- 
ers directly concerned. In each of 
these grades, the establishment of 
two or more strength requirements for 
each weight of paper is necessary. 
Also, as less strength is required in 
book papers than in writing papers, 
different strength ranges are neces- 
sary for these two classes of paper. 
The strength requirements, of course, 





ie A 
























Widerice indicating, according | 
@€ prosecution, £-the come |' 
ssuéd misleading statements 
Fomote sales of mortgage cer- 





















the dénouement of "the: trial 
rd Tompkins, special attorney 
@ Department of Justice, and 
Brower, a special assistant 
tornéy General Cummings, 
"clear taandate to go ahead | 
8 prosecution of the officials 
We other mortgage companies. 
pairst of these, the trial of six | 
Ms of the National Title and | 
tee Company, wis ' set' for 
i. 8. They had not decided when 
Pwould ask for a retrial of Mr, 


had been based mainly 








hite Plains Monroe Cahn, of 
l for the convicted men, said 
$s would be taken in the near 
The Srounds for this action 
include his contention, he 
what: the verdict apainst' Ste- 


rd & Bway PE G-s109 
plicaliy Constructed 
on ; 


pun Glasses 





These fine; soft, throw-away Hssues are perfect 
for removing cleansing cream, cold cream, lip- 
stick, You'll find they're perfect for removing 
excess nail polish and nail creams. 















A Rare Chance? 


REG. $1.00 SIZE 


NI 


Talewum Powder 


















oe Fl sgre=@ 


HAND 


16x28 ine 


BATHE 


22044 ind 


"WASE 












Optical quality zyl- 
bge jointed frame, with 
found and polished 
e¢. Smoked or fieuzal. 











® Slip over your own 









2 tox $1.17 l2n12 inch 
sse8:* All shapes, opti- , 

Wally constricted duri- : ae 
im frame with ~ fine To dispose of their 
bund and polished stock 'of discon« 





é Complete . with 
venient carrying case. 






22x32 ine: 


Did you find yourself 
happen to you again 
buy thick, fluffy, fax 
Nothing wrong with 


Solid color reversibi 
*In $ patterns, 


MAL ARM Ward 


tinued bottles, 
Houbigant's is of- 
fering their ex- 

isite Quelques 
Fleurs and Le Par- 
fum Ideal Taicum 
at the very low 
price of 59c. Tal- 
cur acts as a de- 
lightful antidote 
for heat and sun- 
és burn. Get several 
bottles. 


' MAIL AND PHONE ORDERS FELLED 
No C. @ WD.'s under #1 
GIMBELS—Drugs & Toiletries—Street Floor 



























Sport goggle with fa- 
wus patented azurine 
Mjuilic lenses, Prevents 
rebut lets in light. 
Mors remain unchanged. 
Mmplete with carrying 
e and antiseptic 
aer. 


i AND PHONE 
RBERS MULE 


Please Order By 
= Number ; 
(Gameras—Sixth Floor 


a 











i 








Would Yow Like a Gi 
Purchases may be made 
the balance September 1 
Accounts, Gimbels, 10th 


IE BEET NDOT EL LUI TELE OEIC RE IEE OE SEN IBN 




















, f 





biascut. Hemstitched 
front, 4-inch hem. 
Sizes 34 to 44, 















een eo dee uke wae BROIDERED on, top _ Panel 


e Mail and Telephoue Orders Filled — 


BLOOMINGDALE'S, Lexington at 59th St, N. ¥. G 


Name... 


Address. ..ccaerdec eraser ie er atcreceeesereneeaeeneeeme 


Charge [] CoG bast 















_ Style | Quantity _ Color 
BUSINESS |_ 3 








RR LA ARE I FA NORE LORE SEE FL STO Nea Um ME WARY Bev Pe, 


SALE! Solid Maple and @ 
ADIRONDACK CHAITI 


ADJUST TO 
3 POSITIONS 











Arms screwed on with 8 cou 
sunk screws. Sides fasten 
bolts. Smoothly finished. 
painted. In the two weeks 


















Get yours Monday! | 
MAIL AND PHONE ORDERS 


Unpainted Furniture-—Sizth Ft 





Sit Wp? Feclime! 








WATER REPELLENT PAD 
. Red, Green or Blue 1.19 
'Three Days Delivery . | 


Ai Bioarotpgticls:¢ you are assured af the same low prices whether you pay cash on each purchase, or use a 
a month—either way Bloomingdale's price policy are ie eG 


ne 2 
- y f ' POV 
fede 









i 
=~ 


A STUDY OF PAPER 





must be fixed with consideration of 
the kind and extent of mechanical 
stresses to which the paper will be 
subjected in its use. The strength 
gradations of the government papers 
should be of particular assistance in 
this respect, although as they refer 
to a testing condition of 50% rela- 
tive humidity, they should be modi- 
fied for commercial use to accord with 
the standard commercial testing con- 
dition of 65% relative humidity. 


These specifications led the 
Joint Committee to interests itself 
LM ACOs Sapient ye Of Gall ini ee) 
purified wood-pulp fiber in lieu of 


rag fiber where permanence is desired. 


In an effort to make a practical dem— 
onstration of the possible use of a 
wood-pulp paper manufactured for per- 
manence, the Joint Committee received 
the coéperation of Dill and Collins, 
Paper Manufacturers of Philadelphia, 
and Scribners, publishers of the Dic- 
tionary of American Biography. Died 
and Collins manufactured a sample lot 
of highly purified wood-pulp paper. 
This paper was used for one-third of 
the pages of 25 copies of Volume XIII 
of the Dictionary. An all-rag paper 
of high alpha cellulose content was 
purchased from the Worthy Paper Com- 
pany for another third of the pages. 
The remaining third were printed on 
the paper supplied by the American 
Writing Company. 

The alpha cellulose and cop- 
per number and accelerated aging test 


PERMANENCE 


' 
mye ¢ 





of these three papers are shown in ' 
the table below. 
These 25 copies have been 

placed on the shelves of the follow- 

ing libraries, where they will en- 
counter different kinds of air and é) 
use. The reader is advised to ex- 
amine them. a 


1. Dartmouth College, Hanover, 
New Hampshire 
Pan DO SLOne PUD CE bb Rar a DOSitOn., 
Massachusetts 
3. Columbia University, New York 
City 
4. New York Public Library, New 
Maoielic Calgy 
>. Su. Lawrence University, Canton, 
New York 7 
6. Library of Congress, Washington, "e 
Dee's 
7. University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 
8--Public) Library, Jacksonville, 
Florida " 
9. Howard Memorial Library, New Or- 
leans, Louisiana ' 
ORES Ue OUGm eUiH Cees) bizare. 
Dv LOULS . Missourd 
eee Osea Can aNtarelit eum UL Seda meine fone) Tera Calais 
Gilimiaergil., Clasl© 
12. Cleveland Public Library, Cleve- 
land, Ohio 
13. Carnegie Library, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 
14. John Crerar Library, Chicago, 
Tela aod 
15. Iowa State College Library, Ames, 
Towa 
16. Butte Public Library, Butte, Mon-— 
tana 


- 


SPECIFICATIONS FOR A WOOD-PULP FIBER PAPER 


Alpha 
Cellulose 


Concern 


Dill and Collins 
purified wood pulp 
Worthy Paper Co. 
all-rag stock 
Dictionary of Ameri- 
can Biography 
American Writing Co. 
all-rag stock 











Loss of Folding En- Alpha Con- 
durance under Accel- tent After 
erated Aging Test Aging 
f 
87.25% A 
94.2 
oie 





108 


METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 





17. Colorado College Library, Colorado 
Springs, Colorado 

18. University of Arizona Library, 
Tucson, Arizona 

19. University of Southern California 
Library, Los Angeles 

20. University of California Library, 
Berkeley, California 

21. Seattle Public Library, Seattle, 
Washington 

CE me LOLOM COM lu DilaiCm ie Dis inva mm OIZO mG Os 
Ontario, Canada 

25. McGill University Library, Mon- 
treal, Canada 

24. Dalhousie University Library, Hal- 


ifax, Nova Scotia 


To the publisher all this com- 
plexity is reduced to two simple ques- 
tions: what price shall he pay for 
book paper, and what weight shall he 
give to the rag—content specifica- 
tion as against other specifications, 
such as those stated in terms of al- 
pha cellulose content? 

Let it be supposed then that 
the evidence is clear and undisputed 
that high price alone, and rag-—con- 


tent specifications alone, offer no 
guarantee of permanence, and even 
though the technician soon draws the 


layman beyond his depth in the dis- 
cussion of specifications, a few 
facts stand out as agreed or uncon- 
tested. 





1. A paper meeting the Scrib- 
ner-Burton specifications for maxi- 
mum permanence, with a life probabil- 
ity greater than that of most of the 
all-rag book papers on the market, 
can be made without rags, from puri- 
fied wood fibers. 

ce. A paper capable of surviv- 
ing more severe tests than those pro- 
posed by Scribner, with a life proba- 
bility greater than that of the best 
purified wood-pulp paper, can be made 
of new muslin cuttings. 

5. The adoption and enforce- 
ment of specifications calling for 
either of the two papers described 
above would constitute an immense 
improvement over current practices. 

The difference in permanence 
between paper meeting Scribner speci- 
fications and paper surpassing those 








specifications is an unknown quantity; 
a definite estimate of the price dif- 
ference can be made: if permanent 
purified wood-pulp papers cost $.10 to 
$.15 a pound, then the special perma- 
nent rag papers should cost from $.16 
to $.35 a pound. ' 

Correspondence with a number 
of paper manufacturers has yielded 
the information tabulated as to papers 
now available on the market. -The re- 
sults of the tests are as given by the 
manufacturers themselves; they have 
not been checked. 

Because other paper manufac-— 
turers may wish to offer papers meet- 
ing these specifications, the writer 
has asked the Rag Paper Manufacturers! 
Association, Springfield, Massachu- 
setts, and the American Pulp and Pa- 
per Association, New York City, to 
receive the names of manufacturers who 
may wish to offer products conforming 
to these specifications, and transmit 
them to prospective paper purchasers 
upon request. 

The following firms are among , 
those which will test papers to cover 
all the particulars of the specifica- 
tions tabulated: 


New York Testing Laboratories 
80th Street and East Avenue, New York 
City 


Arthur' Diy Gat tLe 
Charles River Road, Cambridge, Massa-— 
chusetts 


Skinner and Sherman, Inc. , 
276 Sherman Street, Boston, Massa- ; 
chusetts 


United States Testing Company ' 
1415 Park Avenue, Hoboken, New Jersey . 


Bond Papers and Onionskin 
Another field in which perma- 


nence is of great importance is that 
of bond papers, used for typescript 
correspondence and records of the 
archival type, and also in connection 
with the various near-print methods 

of reproducing text, such as mimeo- 
graph and hectograph. The general 
business practice of the country calls 








A STUDY OF 


PAPER PERMANENCE 


109 





for a more permanent stock of paper 
for letters than for books, and a 
less permanent stock for carbon cop- 
ies than for books. The average bus- 
iness letter sheet will last longer 
than the average book page; the aver- 
age carbon copy will fall to pieces 
sooner. 

As the problems of archive 
administration in business become bet 
ter understood, it will no doubt be- 
come apparent that the carbon copies 
of certain classes of correspondence 
require more permanence qualities 
than the originals themselves, since 
they constitute the firm's records of 
its own commitments. The greater part 
of business correspondence is system- 
atically destroyed after a period of 
a few years, but for those classes of 
business correspondence that are in- 
tended for permanent preservation, it 
is appropriate to insist upon paper 
specifications comparable to those 
used for permanent record books. Onion-— 
skin papers of rag content are avail- 
able, and the Eaton Paper Company has 
developed a line of purified wood-pulp 
onionskin paper. Some of their lit- 
erature credits this line with 93% al- 
pha cellulose. Test data supplied by 
the Brightwater Paper Company on the 
same or a similar line shows alpha 
cellulose content of 88.25, copper 
number 1.68, and loss of folding en- 
durance in accelerated aging, 37%. The 
writer has not explored the bond paper 
field except in a haphazard way, but 
believes that in the main the techno- 
logical considerations governing per- 
manence are the same for bond as for 
book papers, and that the argument for 
using chemical and performance speci- 
fications is as good in the one case 
as in the other. 





Beauty and Legibility in Papers 

The analysis of the paper 
situation from the standpoint of per- 
manence has not taken into account the 
paper quality upon which the buyers 
of paper are most insistent, namely, 
beauty. The importance of an attrac- 
tive paper in scholarly publishing is 
MOWm euOMen a Goma mic ta Cm COmtrsaa Dita ora 
to the quality of a finished book, but 
also its relation to legibility. dey 
has been demonstrated repeatedly that 
the legibility or attractiveness of a 
printed text is the product of many 
variables, such as size of type, for— 
mat of page, and use of print face as 
against typescript letters. It is 
clear that paper quality also enters 
into legibility as an important vari- 
able. It seems quite probable that 
the product of the hectograph, with 
its light purple ink, could be made 
more legible and attractive if run on 
a yellow-ivory paper. A reader choos- 
ing between typescript and print face 
on a book page would have his choice 
materially affected if the print face 
should be offered on an unattractive 
paper, the typescript on a beautiful 
one. And here again a fundamental 
rule of small edition publishing must 
be respected: that because the paper 
COG TS So Sell ey jokey jie ans were) 
Cost, am eConomicala pl ace Gomseekeror 
quality in the product is by wsing 
the highest class of paper. 


METHODS FOR REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


110 





































































































SOT 0g | 
uy "330 poanjzoesnuen pta pTq 4904S yooys | Ho0¥s | HO03s | 009s | HOO4S | pTq yO0YS 
eq ue aq ud ynq *009S UT JON SZ6T Bf6T ul ur ul Ur YON ul ur R261 ul AQTTTQRT TRAY 
1 —— 
PST/PT pot 729 pot p8e poe #208 | p2pe| 2pLT & pe 'aofad ofseq zo ajyempxouddy aotag 
I ar YLe LE gOT 4s "say gL Buyjvey Jayye souvanpue BuTpTos pasevadzoaq qse 2up3y 
ot 9T ae T£eT 9T *9 Gu OOT og 09 SBT SPlOs aTqnop 'eSeteae 'soueinpue BuTpTod| pue AgTTend 
09 SP 09 08 os og Sh 09 | S*ZP Guy GLP *sqT (seyouT ge x Gg 'sqeeus 00S) "QUSTEM qTeotsséud 
a = = 
J —_ 
oi | ST' e ST ST y66° TOo9° 009° ST gs Iaao Jou yse Jo a8equeoieg Butpeoy 
al S S IaAO Jou ZUTpEeOT TBLeUTM Jo aZequedted pus 
s* Sa°Tt cor ret SS*T Go°T s° 18 sO a GT T a ONT CoG IaAO YOU BuTZTS upsoI jo as#equsodag ezts 
+ + 
og" Te" Ga ge" ga" usy3 sseyT tequnu poy 
Hdg@*s-g*g¢|Hde*c-g'c| Hd 9-¢ | Hd g*h] Hd Ly ud opp | 8d og'e | nd go'r| Bd 2a°9 Hd g |ud g*c |Hd g*b] Hd cp] Hd c Hd fp | ud g | nd 9-$o MOTE JOU UOTZeAZUBOUOD UOT-UaeZOIphy 44 TPTOV AA TPTOV 
te 
2s°0 62°0 SP°0 To s'o *O (00T "Sa BZ BuTzBey raqze sJequmu seddoo peseeaour qsel Butsy 
eth 3 -T-t 8°T=S°T 8s°O BL°0 SUT ooo E ab- S3°O ge os Sat Sis s°0 daao you zaqumu aszaddop pue 
s'o S'T *O QOOT "Sty BL BuTZBey 84g -TTeo eYdTe peseerosq 44; TEND 
a 
asotntteo | asotntteo| asotntteo| "TT? poom |poom 'mayo Sea ae s3er sder Bea ger | sfea |-{tTa0 | 'treo | -tTe0 | poom | poom | *TTe0 | s#ea sfear 
eydte eydte eudte eydTe "mayo 40S sfer pto PTO mau sau pextu | paxtw] sou sydTe eydte eudie |*mayo | -wayo | eudrte mau mau 
£6 ¥S6 #56 ne ie Zoot | Meu ¥0S ¥O0T xOOT ¥00T ¥OOT | HOOT | ZOOT | FOOT | H46 ¢OL #08 ¥OOT | ¥OOT | 06 | FOOT ¢OOT asoTnTTeo eydqe qo 'yuaqzu0d pooM Jo dex :4909S reqtd 
S6 S/> 
ot uw ~~ a Oo | oa vz SH m em Po mq on od 3a AGH, es) | Ha oq st 
D By oF a9 5 ga Gs =e z#° 5 ge | op la. a2 ES gE: er)aeg| esis: me 
iad re oy ae ee oes as Be ct Set ao ss so on pp ~ om eo unm act n fan mt 
Ba Be a lest Weel ae ge eat ee pee ee ee se eee lene lee eeleate tas apere 
cs ao wo >o mel epic Eo tray " ES 2 5 a.) So He | oo & Bw | aw aS 
= ° ° o wo ° oT ~ @ foo] S z ee 5 Ky 5 y | S 5 B 5 a 5 ies 5 et B 5 mn = 
2 5 5 5 o4 we os Ato BG 0 ° a | ao 2 oO oo © @ BK 5o |o™ af 
@ p p ® RH On > ® ws Rue ig Bae pz Ry a aw 5p yl eg | gee ls es 
4 5 B 5 i at i B 0 2 ee © 5 ps s > 4 
< s < 5 5 B a0 Pa g oa) mu Py 4 \ 3 | op co no Hp 
$ 2 ® ict ro BS es i © 0 @ 0 0 @ | 34 o |ho BA 
s 5 5 ws 8 2s 2 3 ® S 8 Se cee erica |lfroieea lies [perc 
rod ct o B 7 os ° ° = n BM > on = 
o cS 
: Eo meee Eee WS Be (ea) Wh) Peete ee et meagre | ee) eae 
es 2 Be < < 5 a E . Bop os . Bo ap . HO 
5 k s 5 3 Saas ea eeie 8 | 2B |x 28 
ct ot ct f ra Qe o o> Me 
a a oo ld g pi a A es a of a Hu 5 ~ 
& 3 & B Gm ou é 5 f & B 3 5 x 
p q- Q. ° oo Bo +O 
° ° ° 3 ° es +5 3 oe 5 
8 S fad @ 5 % » —& |p 4 
w 8 » 5 aQ ao ot ta > Qt 2a 
K K & + Pe oP Be ® oF or 
5 Ee ° wo p> ° sh _ °o Oo 
=) ee oO wo a wo 5 Ou 5 5 3a 
o a a a 6 an 
0 °o ~ a 2 
o yy H et AH ol H 
4 H H mB 2 ® 
B => H ° eC Q 
> Ba fot @ tb 4 ke 
5 By ia o Be 
g a fat a KB ct od 
ot ~~ Hq f Fs) t 
saedeg aey III pue T sseto I sseto 





saedeq dtng-poom 10 'paxTR 





JES 











pepuemeg JT eTQeTTeAY ede yaHTeW UO saedeg 
4 





aoueuemieg Joy pasodorg suoyTyRoTsyToadg sedeg 


SNOITLVOIAIOGdS HAdVd JO LYVHO 


BAXXX ATAVE 





ee 








ae 


