CHAPTER XIII 


THE RECORDING OF SOUND 


Cost Levels of Sound Reproduction 
The forward drive of technology of- 


fers the prospect of a number of new pos- 
sibilities in the transmission of texts. 
Television may render long-distance reading 
a possibility. The transmission of fac- 
simile texts by radio is on the verge of 
practical realization. The direct record- 
ing of sound is already in use for research 
purposes, and is definitely superior to 
written reproduction in certain fields 
linguistics and music. 

In general, the technology and cost 
relationships encountered in the reproduc- 
tion of sound follow the pattern of those 
encountered in the reproduction of texts. 

In disc recording of sound, for in- 
stance, the disc area is most economically 
used if it is made to rotate at constant 
linear velocity. The ordinary phonograph 
runs at a constant velocity in revolutions 
per minute. This means that the grooves in 
the short circumference near the inside of 
the disc are moving at a speed of one and 
one-half feet a second, which is adequate 
for the reproduction of sound frequencies 
up to 5,000. But the same number of revolu- 
tions per minute (seventy-eight is the in- 
ternational standard) would then carry the 
outside grooves of a large record at two or 
three times this speed. It takes two or 
three inches of groove at the outer edge of 
the record to reproduce the same amount of 
sound that is reproduced nearer the center 
on one inch. By varying the speed of the 
record in revolutions per minute, the ve- 
locity of the groove can be made constant. 


of 


This economizes record space but increases 
apparatus cost. The relationship is pre- 
cisely the one that is encountered in micro- 
photography, where an increase in cost of 
apparatus yields an economy in cost of filn. 

The relationship of first cost to 
running cost is encountered in sound repro- 
duction as in text reproduction. A set of 
master discs costs about $7.50 for one 
side, $15.00 for two sides of a record. The 
cost of making pressings from these is from 
$.55 to $.75 each, of fifty; or more are 
needed. But an inferior record can be made, 
one at a time, by "dubbing"--that is, play- 
ing the master record and recording it on 
a new disc. The dubbed records cost about 
$1.00 each. The cost structure here is 
like the comparison of photo-offset and 
photostat, and curiously enough, the two 
cost lines cross each other at about the 
same place--twenty-five copies. 

As might be expected, the cost per 
word of sound recording is higher than the 
cost per word of text reproduction, but the 
spread is not so great as might be imagined, 
Fifty 12" discs would record 100,000 words. 
The filing space necessary to hold them 
would be a little more than a cubic foot. 
These records, in an edition of fifty, 
would cost from $2500 to $3000. A very ex- 
pensive printing job, with copious illus- 
trations, might well run up a cost very 
elose to this. 

The figures upon which these con- 
clusions are based were furnished by Pro- 
fessor Miles L. Hanley, who has written the 
following description of the technique of 
sound reproduction. 


TECHNIQUE OF PHONOGRAPHIC RECORDING 


By Miles L. Hanley 


Phonographic recording is rapidly 
becoming an indispensable tool for research. 
Conventional transcriptions cannot ade- 
quately represent the unusual intervals of 
folk music and many of the important char- 


acteristics of speech, such as voice quali- 
ty, intonation, distribution of stress, 
speed and rhythm of utterance. Written 
records, however good, must contain a per- 
sonal and subjective element. Without some 


aotae 


178 


objective check, their use requires an act 
of faith--faith that the field worker has 
heard accurately, that he has been able to 
translate what he heard into symbols, and 
that we know just: what he means by his sym- 
bols. Phonograph records not only provide 
such a check, but they constitute a perfect 
archive of material which may be consulted 
and studied in the future. 

After the invention of the phono- 
graph in 1877, its obvious advantages to 
the linguist, the folklorist, the ballad 
collector and the anthropologist were 
promptly recognized by European scholars. 
The Vienna Phonogramm—-Archiv was founded by 
Siegmund Exner in 1899, and the Musée 
Phonétique by Auzulay in 1900. Since then 
many other collections have been estab- 
lished: a second one in Paris, two in Ber- 
lin, and others in Cologne, Lubeck, Frank- 
furt, Leyden, Oslo, and Zurich. In Ameri- 
ca, although our scientists have made great 
advances in the mechanical technique of re- 
cording, our scholars have been slow to see 
the possible uses of this tool. It is true 
that some folk song and American Indian ma- 
terial has been collected in the past, but 
mostly by the unsatisfactory methods of 
cylinder recording or magnetic recording. 
So far we have nothing in America that could 
be called even the beginning of a central 
Phonogramm-Archiv, but we do have some im- 
portant collections and many more are in 
prospect. A few of these are: Professor 





METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


Greet's American Speech records which have 
been made at Columbia during the past ten 
years, the folk songs collected by John A. 
Lomax, the Gullah negro records made by 
Dr. Lorenzo D. Turner, and the records of 
New England speech made for the Linguistic 
ae of America (United States and Cana- 
da). 


Sound Recording Methods® 

In all kinds of electrical record- 
ing, sound waves (periodic variations in 
pressure) produce mechanical movements-—- 
usually in a sensitive diaphragm. These 
movements are translated into corresponding 
electrical vibrations or variations which 
(usually after amplification by vacuum 
tubes) produce mechanical movements in a 
second diaphragm or a moving armature of 
some type. Electrical variations may be 
translated into light variations (sound on 
film) or into magnetic variations (Tele- 
graphone, Blattnerphone). In the familiar 
phonographic technique, the sound vibra- 
tions are translated into mechanical move- 
ments of a stylus which cuts or imbeds a 
groove in ja disc cylinder MOre sia pmo lmao 
\wakoal joal(ers het film.® The groove may be of 
constant depth, recording lateral swings of 
the stylus (lateral cut, "snake track," 
Berlinerschrift) or of varying depth (hill 
and dale, Edisonschrift). Hill and dale 
recording is used in dictating machines and 
in some very high-quality studio recording, 


1. See the American Council of Learned Societies Bulletin No. 23 for June, 1935 especially Professor Mil- 
man Parry's "Oral Poetry of the Southern Slavs," pp. 30 and 98; Professor Herskovits! Transcriptions 
of West African Music," p. 125; and the reports on the Linguistic Atlas Collection, pp. 22 and 87. 





e. For a full and authoritative discussion with excellent bibliographies see Technische Akustik 
(These two volumes from Bd. XVII of the Handbuch der Experimen- 


E. Waetzmann, 2 vols., Leipzig, 1934. 
talphy sik.) 


ed. 





An excellent and readable book on film and disc recording is Talking Pictures by Bernard Brown, 


2d (revised) ed., London, 1933 (Isaac Pitman). 


A compact and useful oractical book is Home Recording and All About It by George J. Saliba, 


New York, 1932 (Gernsback). 


Sound Projection (by Rudolph Miehling, New York, 1929 (Mancell Pub. Co.), while less up-to-date 
than the other books mentioned, may be found useful. 
An abstract of G. Oscar Russell's, Mechanical Recording of Speech appears in Bulletin No. 4, 


Ling, Soc. Am., Sept., 1929. 


A brief essay by H. A. Frederick, "Recording and Reproducing Sound" appears in the Review of 


Scientific Instruments, Vol. 5, No. 5 (May, 1934). 


A discussion of recording materials is found in E. Nesper, Nimm Schallplatten Selber Auf! 
(Stuttgart, 3rd ed., 1932) and in the essay by H. aA. Frederick referred to above. 


See also the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, The Review of Scientific Instru- 


ments, and The Bell Technical Journals. 


5. This last method, much in vogue in France, is not to be confused with the familiar moving picture tech- 


nique in which light variations are photographed. 


THE RECORDING OF SOUND 


72 


AN IN, _ TT 


but lateral cut records are most practical 
for common use at the present time. 

The recording methods referred to 
in the preceding paragraph may be classi- 
fied as (1) Photographic, (2) Magnetic, 
(3) Mechanical. Since the particular kind 
of mechanical recording known as instan- 
taneous recording on disc will be used in 
most research projects, the first and sec- 
ond will be dismissed with a few brief re- 
marks .4 


1. Photographic. In this method, 
electrical variations produce corresponding 
light variations, which in turn produce 
either a varying amount of exposure (vari- 
able density, Western Electric) or varying 
area (variable width, R.C.A.) on a photo- 
graphic film. Equipment for this method 
can be easily portable and can be used un- 
der extreme climatic conditions, but the 
record cannot be played back at once. Ac- 
cording/'to Dr. H. A. Frederick, duplicates, 
even commercial ones, show considerable 
yariations from print to print. "Such du— 
plicate records have thus far failed to 
show as great uniformity as disc record 
pressings. The individual film records are 
Expensive, Geli cave, bulky, sand sditricult 
to handle compared with disks."© In con- 
tradiction to this statement it has been 
pointed out that duplicate prints produced 
by the large film companies are now fairly 
constant and that variations are mainly in 
the range above four thousand cycles. The 
fact remains that it would be difficult for 
the ordinary research worker to get copies 





of any such quality. The excellence of 
film recording is unquestioned, but the ex- 
pense of this method is prohibitive for 
most research projects.© 


&. Magnetic. In this method, elec- 
trical variations produce variations in the 
degree to which a magnetic wire (Tele- 
graphone) or steel tape (Blattnerphone) is 
magnetized across its axis. This method 
requires special equipment and is not much 
more satisfactory than cylinder recording. 
Duplicates cannot be made, though of course 
it is possible, with special equipment, to 
dub the record on disc or film. The great 
disadvantage of the magnetic method is 
that, with the alloys now available, a wire 
or tape soft enough to record sensitively 
loses its magnetism in a short time.7 


3. Mechanical. Mechanical methods 
include cylinder recording, scratching on 
motion picture film, studio recording on 
wax, and the various instantaneous disc 
methods. 

Cylinder recording may safely be 
excluded. It is almost as expensive as 
disc recording, and much less satisfactory. 
The records are fragile, insensitive to 
high frequencies, difficult and expensive 
to duplicate, and quickly worn out by use.8 

Recording by means of grooves 
scratched on motion picture film has not, 
so far as I know, been tried very exten-— 
Silvey machsmCountrya lhe materiales 
not expensive, since discarded picture films 
may be used, but duplication is difficult 


ee 


4. For technical information I am indebted to the expert knowledge of Mr. Lincoln Thompson of the Sound 


Specialties Company, Waterbury, Connecticut. 


He is not, of course, responsible for any faults in the 


present account, much of which is inexpertly condensed from his full and explicit discussions. I have 
also used a number of valuable suggestions from Mr. S. K. Wolf, Acoustic Consulting Manager of Electri- 


cal Research Products, Inc. 


5. H. A. Frederick, Rev. of Sci. Inst., Vol. 5 (May, 1934), p. 181. 


6. A photographic sound track may be put on disc. 


Such a record is of excellent quality and free from 
surface scratch because there is no surface contact. 


However, the method is not practical for most 


purposes and it is impossible to get more than two minutes of recording on a disc of ordinary size. 
7. A magnetic steel tape recorder recently built by the Bell Laboratories is said to give much better 


quality than cylinder recording. 
nitely. 


They also have tapes which are said to retain their magnetism indefi- 


8. Unfortunately most of the field recording done in the past has employed some kind of cylinder recording 
on the principle of the Edison Phonograph, and a great deal of valuable material is so preserved. It 
is to be hoped that no one hereafter will use such methods, but those who have cylinder records may be 
interested to know that they can now be electrically re-recorded on discs in this country. 


180 


and special apparatus is needed both for 
recording and playing. I have heard that 
there are difficulties in keeping the films 
flat and constant in velocity. The record- 
ing medium, celluloid or cellulose acetate, 
is also open to objections which will be 
discussed under disc recording .9 

Since most of us require records 
that can be made in the field and paid for 
from limited funds, studio recording on 
wax is usually out of the question. But if 
the material can be recorded in the studio 
and expense is) no object, records can (be 
made of a perfection that would have seemed 
miraculous five years ago. In studio re- 
cording, the groove is cut inca isoft "wax" 
(really a mixture of metallic soaps). "The 
surface of the wax, after being thus en- 
graved, is rendered electrically conducting. 
This can be done in a number of ways, such 
as dusting with graphite or bronze powder, 
sputtering with gold or silver in a cathode 
chamber, or by the chemical precipitation 
of silver."1°9 'The wax is then electroplat- 
ed with copper and a "master" made. From 
this "master" or negative, records may be 
pressed, though in commercial practice, 
where many pressings are to be made, a 
"mother" is electroplated from the "master" 
and from that, one or more "stampers," that 
the master negative may not be worn out. 
The layman who does not understand the del- 
WORY tlatel Glisties Chula, Ost iwee@webias Oia 
studio wax should see the process, or read 
a detailed account (e.g., that in Brown's 
Talking Pictures, cited above). 

What might be called "semi-studio" 
recording has been tried by the Lautabteil- 
ung of the National Library of Prussia and 
by the Royal Irish Academy.11 Portable ap- 
paratus for recording on studio wax exists, 
but it is much more cumbersome than appara- 
tus for instantaneous recording and is open 
LOMnany Ser CUS mpLacb1 Caled i hit culkidesr 

The remainder of this. discussion 
will be devoted to instantaneous recording 
on disc. There are three kinds of methods: 








METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


(1) those using a pregrooved record; (2) cut- 
ting; (3) imbedding. 

(1) Pregrooved records have been 
widely used in home recording. There are 
two methods: In one the stylus point drops 
into the center of the pregroove, and pro- 
duces a groove within a groove; in the 
other the stylus point fills the pregroove 
and produces undulations in it. The discs 
are expensive, but when a small amount of 
recording is to be done and high quality is 
not required, this method offers great ad- 
vantages, since the ordinary pick-up arm is 
used and no feed for the cutting head is 
required. Very good records may be pro- 
duced with this method by using a special 
turntable and powerful motor, but in this 
case the added cost of discs and special 
equipment is such that one might as well 
have provided a turntable feed in the first 
place. 

(2) Instantaneous recording by cut- 
ting is similar to wax recording in that an 
actual chip is removed from the discs. Com- 
positions of gelatin, celluloid, or cellu- 
lose acetate are generally used. Gelatin 
is sensitive to moisture and deteriorates 
with age. Celluloid is inflammable and 
cellulose acetate less satisfactory in 
quality than celluloid. "Metallophone" 
discs, made in Germany, produce excellent 
results, but the price is very high, es-— 
pecially for the twelve-inch discs. A new 
principle is employed in the Draloton disc, 
also made in Germany. The recording is 
done on a soft "bakelitartiges" material, 
which is afterward hardened by baking. The 
baking process, which does not injure the 
original record, makes it playable with a 
steel needle. But the Draloton disc re- 
quires considerable skill on the part of 
the operator, must be kept fairly cold, and 
deteriorates rapidly with age. For these 
reasons it is not a suitable material for 
field recording. The Presto Recording Com- 
pany of New York markets a disc somewhat 
similar to the "Metallophone," which they 





9. Direct cutting on the edge of a film has also been experimented with at various times. 
has obvious advantages for synchronizing sound and picture film. 


This method 
A development of this method known 


as the Spoor-Lindberg system has been tried in Chicago, but I have no firsthand knowledge of it. 

LOS He Aj Prederiek, (Rev. Of S¢i.. Insts.) VOlsmo, me NOs Om Demis 

11. See Royal Irish Academy Abstract of Minutes, Session 1928-29, Appendix, pp. 19-29; Proceedings of the 
Royal Irish Academy, 1930-51, pp. 20-26; Ibid., 1931-52, pp. 25-31; and Dr. Myles Dillon, "Report of 
a Linguistic Survey Recently Carried Out in Ireland," Atti del III Congresso Internazionale dei 


Linguisti (Roma, Seuttembre, 1934—-xii). 


queudtnbyg otudeasoucug s,AsTUeYH JOSsejolg 


ITIXXT dyad 








THE RECORDING OF SOUND 


LoL 





claim to be even better. The records, how- 
ever, are just about as expensive. A steel 
needle of a special type is used in repro- 
duction. Under ideal conditions, the spe- 
cial discs referred to give considerable 
better results than aluminum, but since 
most of them are sensitive to heat or at- 
mospheric conditions, or deteriorate rapid 
ly with age, they are, on the whole, less 
suitable for field work than aluminum. The 
Marguerite Company of London uses a simi- 
lar disc which has a smoother surface than 
the Presto, but is otherwise open to the 
same objections and requires a special 
trailing needle. An excellent disc of sim-— 
ilar type has recently been perfected by 
the Sound Specialties Company of Waterbury, 
Connecticut. The disc is coated with a 
kind of cellulose acetate lacquer which 
hardens slowly with time. It may be played 
with any ordinary steel needle. 

An important objection to the cut-— 
ting method is that no provision is made 
for removing the long spiral chip, which 
GONG SmevOmCUIM around thier sity Luss FUL 
recording the chip is withdrawn by a_ suc- 
tion pipe as fast as it is formed. Both the 
styluses and cutting media available at 
present tend to be erratic. The same ob- 
jections apply to records scratched on 
either nitrate or safety film. 

(3) In the imbedding method, the 
stylus is fed across the disc at a uniform 
rate and presses a groove into the disc, 
which has been treated with some lubricant 
to reduce surface noise. Machine oil or 
axle grease is satisfactory, but the clean- 
est and most permanent lubricants are wax- 
es, e€.g., paraffin. The ordinary aluminum 
disc has a hard surface and requires a 
heavy weight on the recording head. It is 
obvious that additional sensitivity could 
be secured by the use of a softer medium 
and a lighter weight cutting head. For 
this purpose, discs softened by annealing 
have often been tried, with varying re- 
sults. If annealed too rapidly, discs tend 
to curve and to record unevenly. Discs 


annealed slowly in oil, however, keep their 


original stiffness and produce better rec-— 
ords. Apparently they will stand as many 
replayings with fiber needles as the harder 
dises.12 A special sapphire play-back 
needle may be used on aluminum discs and 
gives excellent quality without injuring 
the records. Such a play-back needle, how- 
ever, must be made to fit exactly the 
groove in which it is to be used. Conse- 
quently the records made by different ma- 
chines will require different play-back 
needles. 


Field Recording. For field record- 
ing, prime requisites are portability, rug- 
gedness, economy and simplicity of opera- 
tion. Other requirements will vary with 
individual projects. Almost all methods 
known to me have been mentioned, but in my 
opinion, the most suitable for most proj- 
ects is disc recording on annealed alumi- 
num.tS It allows for satisfactory quali- 
ty with simple operation, relatively low 
cost of equipment and materials, ease of 
storage, simple and accurate duplication. 
Single copies may be re-recorded on alumi- 
num at slight cost, but if more and better 
copies are required, a metal master from 
which standard type records may be pressed 
may now be made by direct galvanic proc- 
esses at a cost of under ten dollars for 
the making of a twelve-inch master and sev-— 
eral pressings.14 Portable outfits rang- 
ing in cost from $225.00 to $1,100.00 are 
now on the market. The finest portabie 
equipment I have seen is that provided by 
Harvard University for Professor Milman 
Parry's expedition to Yugo-Slavia. 


Power Supply. When dependable al- 
Gera tne aC Ure nicmansh 2 Vieiiewe Dike me Semoun 
course, the most convenient source of pow-— 
er. Otherwise batteries must be used. 
Some weight may be saved by the use of a 
powerful spring motor for operating the 
turntables, but in any case batteries are 
needed for the amplifiers. When working 
in New England I used a combination set, 
Wilchinwit Chm lm coulda record moms lemon Am Gr 





12. -Persons using discs in quantities of 500 or less will probably continue to buy from agents as hereto- 


fore. 


Those who use many discs can effect considerable savings by having the purchasing agents of 


their universities buy the discs directly from the Aluminum Company of America. 
13. The coated discs referred to above are very much better than aluminum and should be used wherever pos- 


sible. 


But for field recording where the source of supply is remote and discs must be carried for 


periods of several weeks, the aluminum is safer and not so likely to make trouble for the inexpert 


operator. 


14. I should be glad to lend a copy of such a record to any one interested. 


182 


Microphones. The familiar one-but- 
ton carbon microphone is inadequate for 
good recording, since it performs accurate- 
ly only within a very small frequency 
range; but the best quality two-button car- 
bon microphone, for example, the Western 
Electric 600A, gives a fairly uniform re- 
sponse. A good carbon microphone is satis- 
factory when the speaker stands fairly 
close to it so that small amplification is 
required; otherwise the unavoidable carbon 
hiss will produce a swishing noise in the 
record. The dynamic, crystal, ribbon, and 
condenser types require more amplification 
than the carbon microphone, but have no ex-— 
traneous noise. The condenser is excellent 
in quality, but since it is sensitive to 
moisture and requires particular care, it 
is unsatisfactory for field recording. af 
have had no field experience with the new 
crystal microphone, but have heard very 
good reports of it. The choice between the 
dynamic and ribbon or velocity type depends 
on the nature of recording to be done. The 
ribbon or velocity microphone is highly di- 
rectional, that is, picks up the sound com- 
iiss i eora ClireGwigihyr alia siieeyeie, Gat aly, Cie Caueaeg= 
ly behind it. This feature is often an ad- 
vantage, since background noise is largely 
eliminated. The dynamic and crystal micro- 
phones are not so directional and are suit- 
able for several speakers. Until recently 
the expense of good dynamic microphones has 
been prohibitive, but excellent ones may 
now be obtained at a cost of under $100.00. 
For most purposes the dynamic microphone is 
to be recommended.15 

For aluminum recording it is best 
to use a pre-amplifier, for it is then pos- 
sible to strengthen the frequency response 
at the point where aluminum is poor, namely 


15. Though the velocity microphone has been used effectively in broadcasting studios, I should not recom- 
The directional feature is a disadvantage with inexperienced speakers, 


mend it for field recording. 








METHODS OF REPRODUCING RESEARCH MATERIALS 


above 6500, with a consequent gain in clar- 
aNGiVi. 

The present discussion has been 
largely concerned with recording in the 
field, but there are many other practical 
uses of recording equipment. In laboratory 
experiments dealing with sound, it is pos- 
sible to record simultaneously the sounds 
studied, +® It is very easy to make excel- 
lent records of radio programs either as 
received or as sent out from the studio. 
Many important broadcasts are now so pre- 
served. There are many obvious educational 
applications, among them teaching the pro- 
nunciation of foreign languages, testing 
musical aptitudes, correcting speech de- 
ieets, adding sound ei tects corsa Len tamil nicr 
and, thanks to the process of hearing by 
bone conduction, in teaching the deaf. 

Instantaneous recording with the 
latest type of discs opens up many hitherto 
unrecognized possibilities. Recording done 
with two turntables may be perfectly con- 
tinuous, so that material in any quantity 
is recorded as it is produced. With aNgood 
transcribing instrument, such as is now 
available, one may play such records, local- 
izing exactly the material of interest to 
him, and re-record on a new disc. Re- 
recording in the past has commonly meant | 
serious loss in quality, but with the new 
coated discs, excerpts are almost indis- 
tinguishable from the original. This fact 
is of great advantage in dealing with folk- 
lore, ballad material, or anything produced 
by a naive speaker, who cannot be expected 
to give a rehearsed and timed performance. 
The material may be edited and even re- 
arranged. 


who frequently move about or turn their heads, and the low frequency response is so strong that un- 
less a special filter is used, there is great danger of the fault known as "overcutting." 
16. See Harry H. Hall, "A Recording Analyzer for the Audible Frequency Range," Journal of the Acoustical 


Society of America, Vol. 7, Oct. 1935, pp. 102-110. 


analyzed by Dr. Hall's instrument. 


Records have been kept of all speech sounds 


